The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation of Atlanta's recent primary election produced `` no evidence '' that any irregularities took place .
The jury further said in term-end presentments that the City Executive Committee , which had over-all charge of the election , `` deserves the praise and thanks of the City of Atlanta '' for the manner in which the election was conducted .
The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible `` irregularities '' in the hard-fought primary which was won by Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr. .
The grand jury commented on a number of other topics , among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing departments which it said `` are well operated and follow generally accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments '' .
The City Purchasing Department , the jury said , `` is lacking in experienced clerical personnel as a result of city personnel policies '' .
The grand jury took a swipe at the State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for child welfare services in foster homes .
`` This is one of the major items in the Fulton County general assistance program '' , the jury said , but the State Welfare Department `` has seen fit to distribute these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties in the state with the exception of Fulton County , which receives none of this money .
Nevertheless , `` we feel that in the future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available funds '' , the jurors said .
The jury said it found the court `` has incorporated into its operating procedures the recommendations '' of two previous grand juries , the Atlanta Bar Association and an interim citizens committee .
Regarding Atlanta's new multi-million-dollar airport , the jury recommended `` that when the new management takes charge Jan. 1 the airport be operated in a manner that will eliminate political influences '' .
Four additional deputies be employed at the Fulton County Jail and `` a doctor , medical intern or extern be employed for night and weekend duty at the jail '' .
The jury praised the administration and operation of the Atlanta Police Department , the Fulton Tax Commissioner's Office , the Bellwood and Alpharetta prison farms , Grady Hospital and the Fulton Health Department .
Mayor William B. Hartsfield filed suit for divorce from his wife , Pearl Williams Hartsfield , in Fulton Superior Court Friday .
They have a son , William Berry Jr. , and a daughter , Mrs. J. M. Cheshire of Griffin .
It listed his wife's age as 74 and place of birth as Opelika , Ala. .
The Hartsfield home is at 637 E. Pelham Rd. Aj .
Henry L. Bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney .
He will be succeeded by Ivan Allen Jr. , who became a candidate in the Sept. 13 primary after Mayor Hartsfield announced that he would not run for reelection .
Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor's race , a top official said Wednesday .
Robert Snodgrass , state GOP chairman , said a meeting held Tuesday night in Blue Ridge brought enthusiastic responses from the audience .
State Party Chairman James W. Dorsey added that enthusiasm was picking up for a state rally to be held Sept. 8 in Savannah at which newly elected Texas Sen. John Tower will be the featured speaker .
In the Blue Ridge meeting , the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures of registered voters .
Sam Caldwell , State Highway Department public relations director , resigned Tuesday to work for Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's campaign .
He will be succeeded by Rob Ledford of Gainesville , who has been an assistant more than three years .
When the gubernatorial campaign starts , Caldwell is expected to become a campaign coordinator for Byrd .
The Georgia Legislature will wind up its 1961 session Monday and head for home -- where some of the highway bond money it approved will follow shortly .
Before adjournment Monday afternoon , the Senate is expected to approve a study of the number of legislators allotted to rural and urban areas to determine what adjustments should be made .
Meanwhile , it was learned the State Highway Department is very near being ready to issue the first $30 million worth of highway reconstruction bonds .
A Highway Department source said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work .
The department apparently intends to make the Rural Roads Authority a revolving fund under which new bonds would be issued every time a portion of the old ones are paid off by tax authorities .
Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Gov. Marvin Griffin .
The Highway Department source told The Constitution , however , that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans to issue the new rural roads bonds .
Schley County Rep. B. D. Pelham will offer a resolution Monday in the House to rescind the body's action of Friday in voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances .
While emphasizing that technical details were not fully worked out , Pelham said his resolution would seek to set aside the privilege resolution which the House voted through 87-31 .
Pelham pointed out that Georgia voters last November rejected a constitutional amendment to allow legislators to vote on pay raises for future Legislature sessions .
A veteran Jackson County legislator will ask the Georgia House Monday to back federal aid to education , something it has consistently opposed in the past .
Rep. Mac Barber of Commerce is asking the House in a privilege resolution to `` endorse increased federal support for public education , provided that such funds be received and expended '' as state funds .
The resolution , which Barber tossed into the House hopper Friday , will be formally read Monday .
It says that `` in the event Congress does provide this increase in federal funds '' , the State Board of Education should be directed to `` give priority '' to teacher pay raises .
-- After a long , hot controversy , Miller County has a new school superintendent , elected , as a policeman put it , in the `` coolest election I ever saw in this county '' .
The new school superintendent is Harry Davis , a veteran agriculture teacher , who defeated Felix Bush , a school principal and chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee .
Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election , and Bush got 402 .
Ordinary Carey Williams , armed with a pistol , stood by at the polls to insure order .
`` This was the coolest , calmest election I ever saw '' , Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said .
The former county school superintendent , George P. Callan , shot himself to death March 18 , four days after he resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board .
During the election campaign , both candidates , Davis and Bush , reportedly received anonymous telephone calls .
Sheriff Felix Tabb said the ordinary apparently made good his promise .
-- Committee approval of Gov. Price Daniel's `` abandoned property '' act seemed certain Thursday despite the adamant protests of Texas bankers .
Daniel personally led the fight for the measure , which he had watered down considerably since its rejection by two previous Legislatures , in a public hearing before the House Committee on Revenue and Taxation .
Dewey Lawrence , a Tyler lawyer representing the Texas Bankers Association , sounded the opposition keynote when he said it would force banks to violate their contractual obligations with depositors and undermine the confidence of bank customers .
Rep. Charles E. Hughes of Sherman , sponsor of the bill , said a failure to enact it would amount `` to making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks , insurance and pipeline companies '' .
His contention was denied by several bankers , including Scott Hudson of Sherman , Gaynor B. Jones of Houston , J. B. Brady of Harlingen and Howard Cox of Austin .
-- Senators unanimously approved Thursday the bill of Sen. George Parkhouse of Dallas authorizing establishment of day schools for the deaf in Dallas and the four other largest counties .
There was no debate as the Senate passed the bill on to the House .
It would authorize the Texas Education Agency to establish county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or more population , require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age to attend the day schools , permitting older ones to attend the residential Texas School for the Deaf here .
Operating budget for the day schools in the five counties of Dallas , Harris , Bexar , Tarrant and El Paso would be $451,500 , which would be a savings of $157,460 yearly after the first year's capital outlay of $88,000 was absorbed , Parkhouse told the Senate .
The TEA estimated there would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in Dallas County , saving them from coming to Austin to live in the state deaf school .
Dallas may get to hear a debate on horse race parimutuels soon between Reps. V. E. ( Red ) Berry and Joe Ratcliff .
While details are still to be worked out , Ratcliff said he expects to tell home folks in Dallas why he thinks Berry's proposed constitutional amendment should be rejected .
Rep. Berry , an ex-gambler from San Antonio , got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies .
The house passed finally , and sent to the Senate , a bill extending the State Health Department's authority to give planning assistance to cities .
Another enlarged authority of the Beaumont Navigation District .
The third amended the enabling act for creation of the Lamar county Hospital District , for which a special constitutional amendment previously was adopted .
Without dissent , senators passed a bill by Sen. A. R. Schwartz of Galveston authorizing establishment in the future of a school for the mentally retarded in the Gulf Coast district .
Money for its construction will be sought later on but in the meantime the State Hospital board can accept gifts and donations of a site .
One , by Sen. Louis Crump of San Saba , would aid more than 17,000 retailers who pay a group of miscellaneous excise taxes by eliminating the requirement that each return be notarized .
It was one of a series of recommendations by the Texas Research League .
The other bill , by Sen. A. M. Aikin Jr. of Paris , would relieve real estate brokers , who pay their own annual licensing fee , from the $12 annual occupation license on brokers in such as stocks and bonds .
Natural gas public utility companies would be given the right of eminent domain , under a bill by Sen. Frank Owen 3 , of El Paso , to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas .
Marshall Formby of Plainview , former chairman of the Texas Highway Commission , suggested a plan to fill by appointment future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress , eliminating the need for costly special elections .
Under Formby's plan , an appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor , lieutenant governor , speaker of the House , attorney general and chief justice of the Texas Supreme Court .
-- State representatives decided Thursday against taking a poll on what kind of taxes Texans would prefer to pay .
An adverse vote of 81 to 65 kept in the State Affairs Committee a bill which would order the referendum on the April 4 ballot , when Texas votes on a U.S. senator .
Rep. Wesley Roberts of Seminole , sponsor of the poll idea , said that further delay in the committee can kill the bill .
The West Texan reported that he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set it for public hearing on Feb. 22 .
The proposal would have to receive final legislative approval , by two-thirds majorities , before March 1 to be printed on the April 4 ballot , Roberts said .
All Dallas members voted with Roberts , except Rep. Bill Jones , who was absent .
-- Paradise lost to the alleged water needs of Texas' big cities Thursday .
Rep. James Cotten of Weatherford insisted that a water development bill passed by the Texas House of Representatives was an effort by big cities like Dallas and Fort Worth to cover up places like Paradise , a Wise County hamlet of 250 people .
When the shouting ended , the bill passed , 114 to 4 , sending it to the Senate , where a similar proposal is being sponsored by Sen. George Parkhouse of Dallas .
Most of the fire was directed by Cotten against Dallas and Sen. Parkhouse .
Cotten construed this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing water for rural Texas .
Statements by other legislators that Dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds , and that less populous places would benefit most by the pending bill , did not sway Cotten's attack .
The bill's defenders were mostly small-town legislators like J. W. Buchanan of Dumas , Eligio ( Kika ) De La Garza of Mission , Sam F. Collins of Newton and Joe Chapman of Sulphur Springs .
`` Dallas and Fort Worth can vote bonds .
-- A Houston teacher , now serving in the Legislature , proposed Thursday a law reducing the time spent learning `` educational methods '' .
Rep. Henry C. Grover , who teaches history in the Houston public schools , would reduce from 24 to 12 semester hours the so-called `` teaching methods '' courses required to obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate .
`` A person with a master's degree in physics , chemistry , math or English , yet who has not taken Education courses , is not permitted to teach in the public schools '' , said Grover .
College teachers in Texas are not required to have the Education courses .
-- The board of regents of Paris Junior College has named Dr. Clarence Charles Clark of Hays , Kan. as the school's new president .
Dr. Clark will succeed Dr. J. R. McLemore , who will retire at the close of the present school term .
Dr. Clark holds an earned Doctor of Education degree from the University of Oklahoma .
He also received a Master of Science degree from Texas A & I College and a Bachelor of Science degree from Southwestern State College , Weatherford , Okla. .
In addition , Dr. Clark has studied at Rhode Island State College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
During his college career , Dr. Clark was captain of his basketball team and was a football letterman .
Dr. Clark has served as teacher and principal in Oklahoma high schools , as teacher and athletic director at Raymondville , Texas , High School , as an instructor at the University of Oklahoma , and as an associate professor of education at Fort Hays , Kan. , State College .
He has served as a border patrolman and was in the Signal Corps of the U.S. Army .
-- Principals of the 13 schools in the Denton Independent School District have been re-elected for the 1961-62 session upon the recommendation of Supt. Chester O. Strickland .
The report , culminating a year long study of the ADC program in Cook county by a New York City welfare consulting firm , listed 10 long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring ADC case load .
The monthly cost of ADC to more than 100,000 recipients in the county is 4.4 million dollars , said C. Virgil Martin , president of Carson Pirie Scott & Co. , committee chairman .
`` We must solve the problems which have forced these people to depend upon ADC for subsistence '' , Martin said .
The volume of ADC cases will decrease , Martin reported , when the community is able to deal effectively with two problems : Relatively limited skills and discrimination in employment because of color .
Several defendants in the Summerdale police burglary trial made statements indicating their guilt at the time of their arrest , Judge James B. Parsons was told in Criminal court yesterday .
The disclosure by Charles Bellows , chief defense counsel , startled observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial .
Bellows made the disclosure when he asked Judge Parsons to grant his client , Alan Clements , 30 , a separate trial .
Judge Parsons leaned over the bench and inquired , `` You mean some of the defendants made statements admitting this '' ? ?
-- President Kennedy today pushed aside other White House business to devote all his time and attention to working on the Berlin crisis address he will deliver tomorrow night to the American people over nationwide television and radio .
The President spent much of the week-end at his summer home on Cape Cod writing the first drafts of portions of the address with the help of White House aids in Washington with whom he talked by telephone .
Shortly after the Chief Executive returned to Washington in midmorning from Hyannis Port , Mass. , a White House spokesman said the address text still had `` quite a way to go '' toward completion .
Asked to elaborate , Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , replied , `` I would say it's got to go thru several more drafts '' .
Salinger said the work President Kennedy , advisers , and members of his staff were doing on the address involved composition and wording , rather than last minute decisions on administration plans to meet the latest Berlin crisis precipitated by Russia's demands and proposals for the city .
The last 10 cases in the investigation of the Nov. 8 election were dismissed yesterday by Acting Judge John M. Karns , who charged that the prosecution obtained evidence `` by unfair and fundamentally illegal means '' .
Contempt proceedings originally had been brought against 677 persons in 133 precincts by Morris J. Wexler , special prosecutor .
`` Actually , the abuse of the process may have constituted a contempt of the Criminal court of Cook county , altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the function of this court '' , said Karns , who is a City judge in East St. Louis sitting in Cook County court .
After reading his statement discharging the 23d ward case , Karns told Wexler that if the seven cases scheduled for trial also involved persons who had been subpenaed , he would dismiss them .
-- President Kennedy today proposed a mammoth new medical care program whereby social security taxes on 70 million American workers would be raised to pay the hospital and some other medical bills of 14.2 million Americans over 65 who are covered by social security or railroad retirement programs .
The President , in a special message to Congress , tied in with his aged care plan requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships , build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools , and expand child health care and general medical research .
The aged care plan , similar to one the President sponsored last year as a senator , a fight on Capitol hill .
The President noted that Congress last year passed a law providing grants to states to help pay medical bills of the needy aged .
The President said he will ask Congress to increase grants to states for vocational rehabilitation .
Senate Republican Leader Dirksen ( Ill. ) and House Republican Leader Charles Halleck ( Ind. ) said the message did not persuade them to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance .
House Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D. , Tex. ) called the Kennedy program `` a mighty fine thing '' , but made no prediction on its fate in the House .
-- Acting hastily under White House pressure , the Senate tonight confirmed Robert C. Weaver as the nation's federal housing chief .
Customary Senate rules were ignored in order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing and home finance agency .
In the last eight years , all Presidential appointments , including those of cabinet rank , have been denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor .
The rule was enforced by demand of Sen. Wayne Morse ( D. , Ore. ) in connection with President Eisenhower's cabinet selections in 1953 and President Kennedy's in 1961 .
The most positive element to emerge from the Oslo meeting of North Atlantic Treaty Organization Foreign Ministers has been the freer , franker , and wider discussions , animated by much better mutual understanding than in past meetings .
In the case of Portugal , which a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the NATO Council should critics of its Angola policy prove harsh , there has been a noticeable relaxation of tension .
There should even be no more bitter surprises in the UN General Assembly as to NATO members' votes , since a new ad hoc NATO committee has been set up so that in the future such topics as Angola will be discussed in advance .
Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the NATO locomotive .
Even Norway , despite daily but limited manifestations against atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance , is today closer to the NATO line .
On the negative side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for .
One diplomat described the tenor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk's speeches as `` inconclusive '' .
But he hastened to add that , if United States policies were not always clear , despite Mr. Rusk's analysis of the various global danger points and setbacks for the West , this may merely mean the new administration has not yet firmly fixed its policy .
The impression has nevertheless been given during these three days , despite Mr. Rusk's personal popularity , that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spots .
The Secretary of State himself , in his first speech , gave some idea of the tremendous march of events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the new administration in the past four months .
But where the core of NATO is concerned , the Secretary of State has not only reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of its foreign policy , but has announced that five nuclear submarines will eventually be at NATO's disposal in European waters .
The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will not stand for another setback in Berlin , an affirmation once again taken up by the council as a whole .
The secretary's greatest achievement is perhaps the rekindling of NATO realization that East-West friction , wherever it take place around the globe , is in essence the general conflict between two entirely different societies , and must be treated as such without regard to geographical distance or lack of apparent connection .
The annual spring meeting has given an impetus in three main directions : more , deeper , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( when ratified ) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries , and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent .
The Kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a Geneva conference on Laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy erupts for the first time .
There is little optimism here that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos .
The United States , State Department officials explain , now is mainly interested in setting up an international inspection system which will prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring Thailand and South Viet Nam .
The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet would not become Communist dominated .
The inclination here is to accept a de facto cease-fire in Laos , rather than continue to insist on a verification of the cease-fire by the international control commission before participating in the Geneva conference .
This is another of the modifications of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled to make .
How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression ? ?
Former Vice-President Richard M. Nixon in Detroit called for a firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union .
He was critical of what he feels is President Kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory .
It does not take a Gallup poll to find out that most Republicans in Congress feel this understates the situation as Republicans see it .
They can hardly restrain themselves from raising the question of whether Republicans , if they had been in power , would have made `` amateurish and monumental blunders '' in Cuba .
One Republican senator told this correspondent that he was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration on this score .
The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through Senator Thruston B. Morton ( R ) of Kentucky , chairman of the Republican National Committee , that the Kennedy administration would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition government susceptible of Communist domination .
Kennedy administration policies also have been assailed now from another direction by 70 Harvard , Boston University , Brandeis , and Massachusetts Institute of Technology educators .
It recommends that the United States `` seek instead to detach the Castro regime from the Communist bloc by working for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relations ; ;
Mr. Nixon , for his part , would oppose intervention in Cuba without specific provocation .
But he did recommend that President Kennedy state clearly that if Communist countries shipped any further arms to Cuba that it would not be tolerated .
Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories in Laos , almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended a program that respected , generally , the opinions voiced both by Mr. Nixon and the professors .
Very early in his administration he informed the Kremlin through diplomatic channels , a high official source disclosed , that the new administration would react even tougher than the Eisenhower administration would during the formative period of the administration .
In Laos , the administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters as a useless gesture .
Again and again it asked the Communists to `` freeze '' the military situation in Laos .
But the Communists aided the Pathet Lao at an even faster rate .
And after several correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the huge build-up , administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a `` great service '' and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization .
But the Communists never gave sufficient provocation at any one time for the United States to want to risk a limited or an all-out war over Laos .
There was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded that Laos was ill suited to be an ally , unlike its more determined neighbors , Thailand and South Viet Nam .
The pro-Western government , which the United States had helped in a revolt against the Souvanna Phouma `` neutralist '' government , never did appear to spark much fighting spirit in the Royal Lao Army .
There certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt .
If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma , whom it felt was too trusting of Communists , it gradually had to relinquish them .
One factor was the statement of Senator J. W. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
He declared on March 25 that the United States had erred a year and a half ago by `` encouraging the removal '' of Prince Souvanna .
The White House is taking extraordinary steps to check the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the United States .
In an important assertion of national leadership in this field , he has issued an executive order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Crime , to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems .
The President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend .
The President has also called upon the Attorney General , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and the Secretary of Labor to coordinate their efforts `` in the development of a program of federal leadership to assist states and local communities in their efforts to cope with the problem .
Simultaneously the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L. Hackett , a special assistant to the Attorney General , as executive director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime .
Among arrests reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age .
East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin by appointing a full-time director , Raymond H. Hawksley , the present city CD head , believes .
Mr. Hawksley , the state's general treasurer , has been a part-time CD director in the city for the last nine years .
Noting that President Kennedy has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for the nation's civil defense program , Mr. Hawksley said the federal government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director .
Mr. Hawksley said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents who would be willing to take the full-time CD job .
One of these men is former Fire Chief John A. Laughlin , he said .
One advantage that would come to the city in having a full-time director , he said , is that East Providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense program .
Mr. Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue trucks , similar to the CD vehicle obtained several years ago and now detailed to the Central Fire Station .
He would assign one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the other to the Rumford area .
Speaking of the present status of civil defense in the city , Mr. Hawksley said he would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack .
The Narragansett Race Track grounds is one assembly point , he said , and a drive-in theater in Seekonk would be another .
If the city council fails to consider appointment of a full-time CD director , Mr. Hawksley said , then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a civil defense organization will be developed locally .
Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible revisions in mind .
Governor Notte said last night he plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations for possible changes in time for the next session of the General Assembly .
The governor's move into the so-called `` blue law '' controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R. Grant , deputy city clerk of Central Falls .
Mr. Notte was responding to a resolution adopted by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state house by Miss Grant .
While the city council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review , Mr. Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' .
He will then appoint the study committee with Mr. Nugent's cooperation , the governor said .
`` I would expect the proposed committee to hold public hearings '' , Mr. Notte said , `` to obtain the views of the general public and religious , labor and special-interest groups affected by these laws '' .
The governor wrote Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time `` with the continuous problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales '' .
There has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales laws .
The statutes , similar in both the Bay State and Rhode Island and dating back in some instances to colonial times , severely limit the types of merchandise that may be sold on the Sabbath .
The Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday .
Liberals and conservatives in both parties -- Democratic and Republican -- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties , George H. Reama , nationally known labor-management expert , said here yesterday .
Mr. Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about half of the people in the country want the `` welfare '' type of government and the other half want a free enterprise system .
He said he was `` confessing that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910 '' .
Some of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the Socialist Party .
The lawyer with whom I studied law steered me off the Socialist track .
He suggested that without the Socialist Party ever gaining a national victory , most of its original program has come to pass under both major parties .
Mr. Reama , who retired as vice president of the American Screw Co. in 1955 said , `` Both parties in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth in the gross national product -- but neither told us how to achieve it '' .
Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy , Mr. Reama said : `` A Socialist is a person who believes in dividing everything he does not own '' .
William A. Martinelli , chairman of the Citizens Group of Johnston , transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council President Raymond Fortin Sr. .
The law which governs home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures within 10 days and Mr. Martinelli happens to hold that post .
A difference of opinion arose between Mr. Martinelli and John P. Bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote is handled .
Mr. Martinelli has , in recent weeks , been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called for the vote , while Mr. Bourcier said that a special election might be called instead .
Mr. Bourcier said that he had consulted several Superior Court justices in the last week and received opinions favoring both procedures .
He assured Mr. Martinelli and the council that he would study the correct method and report back to the council as soon as possible .
Mr. Martinelli said yesterday that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement .
`` It has become our responsibility and I hope that the Citizens Group will spearhead the movement '' .
Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain signatures under what were termed `` false pretenses '' .
Several signers affixed their names , it was learned , after being told that no tax increase would be possible without consent of the General Assembly and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town take over the Johnston Sanitary District sewer system .
Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting .
Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A. Abatuno to draft the ordinance .
At the last session of the General Assembly , the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective .
At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District Court for disposition .
-- James P. Mitchell and Sen. Walter H. Jones R-Bergen , last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign issue a remark by Richard J. Hughes , Democratic gubernatorial candidate , that the GOP is `` Campaigning on the carcass of Eisenhower Republicanism '' .
Mitchell was for using it , Jones against , and Sen. Wayne Dumont Jr. R-Warren did not mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel .
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains Country Club .
It was greeted with a chorus of boos by 500 women in Trenton Monday at a forum of the State Federation of Women's Clubs .
Hughes said Monday , `` It is the apparent intention of the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower Republicanism , but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood congealed after Eisenhower retired .
Now he's gone , the Republican Party is not going to be able to sell the tattered remains to the people of the state '' .
Sunday he had added , `` We can love Eisenhower the man , even if we considered him a mediocre president but there is nothing left of the Republican Party without his leadership '' .
The former secretary of labor said he was proud to be an Eisenhower Republican `` and proud to have absorbed his philosophy '' while working in his adminstration .
Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism was a dead issue .
`` He is wrong to inject Eisenhower into this campaign '' , he said , `` because the primary is being waged on state issues and I will not be forced into re-arguing an old national campaign '' .
State aid to schools , the continuance of railroad passenger service , the proper uses of surplus funds of the Port of New York Authority , and making New Jersey attractive to new industry .
Mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said the Meyner administration and the Republican-controlled State Senate `` Must share the blame for this '' .
Noting that Plainfield last year had lost the Mack Truck Co. plant , he said industry will not come into this state until there is tax reform .
`` But I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time '' , Mitchell said .
He said Mitchell is against the centralization of government in Washington but looks to the Kennedy Administration for aid to meet New Jersey school and transportation crises .
The state is now faced with the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities , real estate or motor vehicles , he said , `` and I challenge Mitchell to tell the people where he stands on the tax issue '' .
`` I think that all Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President Eisenhower by Richard J. Hughes .
His reference to ' discredited carcass ' or ' tattered remains ' of the president's leadership is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest war in all history , to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by the American people as president of the United States , and who has been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the free nations .
It can only rebound to Mr. Hughes' discredit '' .
Sen. Charles W. Sandman , R-Cape May , said today Jones will run well ahead of his GOP opponents for the gubernatorial nomination .
Sandman , state campaign chairman for Jones , was addressing a meeting in the Military Park Hotel , Newark , of Essex County leaders and campaign managers for Jones .
Sandman told the gathering that reports from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority given a candidate in recent years .
Sandman said : `` The announcement that Sen. Clifford Case Aj , has decided to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr. Mitchell is a dead giveaway .
It is a desperate effort to prop up a sagging candidate who has proven he cannot answer any questions about New Jersey's problems .
`` We have witnessed in this campaign the effort to project Mr. Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from Washington .
`` We are now witnessing an effort to transfer to Mr. Mitchell some of the glow of Sen. Case's candidacy of last year .
Sandman announced the appointment of Mrs. Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330 Woodland Ave. , Westfield , as state chairman of the Republican Women for Jones Committee .
Mrs. Greenfield is president of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county committeewoman .
County Supervisor Weldon R. Sheets , who is a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination , today called for an end to paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them .
The proposal , Sheets said , represents part of his program for election reforms necessary to make democracy in New Jersey more than a `` lip service word '' .
The candidacy of Mayor James J. Sheeran of West Orange , for the Republican nomination for sheriff of Essex County , was supported today by Edward W. Roos , West Orange public safety commissioner .
Sheeran , a lawyer and former FBI man is running against the Republican organization's candidate , Freeholder William MacDonald , for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy , now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals .
-- William J. Seidel , state fire warden in the Department of Conservation and Economic Development , has retired after 36 years of service .
A citation from Conservation Commissioner Salvatore A. Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction in the number of forest fires in the state .
Seidel joined the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber companies .
In October 1944 , he was appointed state warden and chief of the Forest Fire Section .
He is credited with setting up an annual co-operative fire prevention program in co-operation with the Red Cross and State Department of Education .
-- Richard J. Hughes made his Morris County debut in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night with a pledge `` to carry the issues to every corner of the state '' .
He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn : `` When I come back here after the November election you'll think , ' You're my man -- you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected ' '' .
He said , `` We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what is right and just , and not what is expedient at the time '' .
In his only attack on the Republicans , Hughes said , `` The three Republican candidates for governor are tripping over their feet for popular slogans to win the primary .
We'll not talk out of one side of our mouth in Morris County and out of the other side in Hudson .
He said , `` You can see signs of the Republicans' feeble attack on the Meyner administration .
But I shall campaign on the Meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead '' .
He urged New Jersey to `` become a full partner in the courageous actions of President Kennedy '' .
`` We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean '' , the former Superior Court judge said .
Calling the Democrats the `` party that lives , breathes and thinks for the good of the people '' , Hughes asked , `` a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard toward victory in November '' .
Hughes supported Gov. Meyner's `` Green Acres '' plan for saving large tracts of open land from the onrush of urban development .
He said `` Morris County is rapidly changing and unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas , there will be no land left to preserve '' .
`` After the primary '' , he promised , `` I'll be explicit on where I stand to bring you a strong , dynamic administration .
-- Fifteen members of the Republican State Committee who are retiring -- voluntarily -- this year were honored yesterday by their colleagues .
There may be other 1961 state committee retirements come April 18 , but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican voters .
A special presentation was made to Mrs. Geraldine Thompson of Red Bank , who is stepping down after 35 years on the committee .
She also was the original GOP national committeewoman from New Jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's suffrage amendment .
Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided to seek a third term with Paul R. Screvane and Abraham D. Beame as running mates .
At the same time reaction among anti-organization Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's reported plan was generally favorable .
Some anti-organization Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the last three years .
The resentment among Democratic organization leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting the leaders .
Some viewed this attempt as evidence that Mr. Wagner regarded himself as bigger than the party .
Some Democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to induce State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn to oppose Mr. Wagner for the Mayoral nomination in the Sept. 7 Democratic primary .
These contend there is a serious question as to whether Mr. Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file in the city .
Their view is that last-minute changes the Mayor is proposing to make in the Democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of his performance as Mayor .
In an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate , Mr. Wagner talked by telephone yesterday with Representative Charles A. Buckley , the Bronx Democratic leader , and with Joseph T. Sharkey , the Brooklyn Democratic leader .
As usual , he made no attempt to get in touch with Carmine G. De Sapio , the Manhattan leader .
He is publicly on record as believing Mr. De Sapio should be replaced for the good of the party .
Last night the Mayor visited Mr. Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation .
Apparently he believes Mr. Buckley holds the key to the Democratic organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates without a struggle .
In talks with Mr. Buckley last week in Washington , the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent to dropping Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa , who lives in the Bronx , from this year's ticket .
But Mr. Buckley seems to have assumed he would be given the right to pick Mr. Gerosa's successor .
The Mayor declined in two interviews with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he had decided to run and wanted Mr. Screvane , who lives in Queens , to replace Abe Stark , the incumbent , as the candidate for President of the City Council and Mr. Beame , who lives in Brooklyn , to replace Mr. Gerosa as the candidate for Controller .
The Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter College Campus in the Bronx .
After his speech , reporters asked him about the report of his political intentions , published in yesterday's New York Times .
But as I have said before , if I announce my candidacy , I will have something definite to say about running mates '' .
`` It's ' See Joe , see Jim ' '' , he says .
Corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin O'Connor's novel , `` The Last Hurrah '' .
And the election of President Kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of his home state .
A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery , or worse , is the norm in Massachusetts public life .
The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent $8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront property .
In the House , the Southern-Republican coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration's housing bill , while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid-to-education bill .
The housing bill is now in the House Rules Committee .
The panel's action depends on the return of Representative James W. Trimble , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor .
Mr. Trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday .
The housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans .
The $6,100,000,000 measure , which was passed last Monday by the Senate , provides for forty-year mortgages at low down-payments for moderate-income families .
The education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee , where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the Administration are balking because of the religious controversy .
They are James J. Delaney of Queens and Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts .
What could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National Defense Education Act of 1958 .
Mr. Delaney and Mr. O'Neill are not willing to vote on the public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House Education and Labor Committee .
About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups , according to an official of the corps .
Twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage , Gordon Boyce , director of relations with the voluntary agencies , said in a Washington interview .
They will be for teaching , agriculture and community development in Southeast Asia , Africa , the Middle East and Latin America .
Interviews with several church leaders have disclosed that this development has raised the question whether the Peace Corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over methods , means and goals .
Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled .
The U. S. Government is paying for it .
The U. S. Government pays for all its overseas workers '' .
`` I don't work for the Government '' , the American said .
Can religious agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ? ?
R. Sargent Shriver Jr. , director of the corps , is certain that they can .
No religious group , he declared in an interview , will receive Peace Corps funds unless it forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes .
-- At a gay party in the Kremlin for President Sukarno of Indonesia , Premier Khrushchev pulled out his pockets and said , beaming : `` Look , he took everything I had '' ! !
Indonesia is one of the twenty under-developed countries of Asia , Africa and Latin America that are receiving Soviet aid .
The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly expanding their economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations .
The Communist countries allocated more than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year , according to Western estimates .
United Nations , N. Y. , June 18
-- A committee of experts has recommended that a country's population be considered in the distribution of professional posts at the United Nations .
This was disclosed today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the Soviet Union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the United Nations .
One effect of the proposal , which puts a premium on population instead of economic strength , as in the past , would be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries as India .
India is the most populous United Nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitants .
The report was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of the organization of the United Nations .
The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions is expected to receive the report this week .
The decision was made in Zurich by Prince Boun Oum , Premier of the pro-Western royal Government ; ;
Prince Souvanna Phouma , leader of the nation's neutralists and recognized as Premier by the Communist bloc , and Prince Souphanouvong , head of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces .
Their joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference on the future of Laos .
W. Averell Harriman of the United States , Malcolm MacDonald of Britain , Maurice Couve De Murville , France's Foreign Minister , and Howard C. Green , Canada's Minister of External Affairs , concluded , meanwhile , a round of consultations here on future tactics in the conference .
Princess Moune , Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter , read the Princes' statement .
The meetings in Zurich , the statement said , would deal only with principles that would guide the three factors in their search for a coalition Government .
Appointment of William S. Pfaff Jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday by John F. Tims , president of the company .
Pfaff succeeds Martin Burke , who resigned .
He is a native of New Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school , Fortier High school and Soule business college .
From June , 1942 , until December , 1945 , Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps .
While in the service he attended radio school at Scott Field in Belleville , Ill. .
Before entering the service , Pfaff for five years did clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans .
He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter , Karol , 13 .
They reside at 4911 Miles Dr. .
-- Thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected along Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House for the big inaugural parade on Jan. 20 .
Assuming the weather is halfway decent that day , hundreds of thousands of persons will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F. Kennedy and retiring President Dwight D. Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial route .
Pennsylvania Avenue , named for one of the original 13 states , perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District of Columbia from a commercial standpoint .
Within view of the avenue are some of the United States government's tremendous buildings , plus shrines and monuments .
Of course , 1600 Pennsylvania , the White House , is the most famous address of the free world .
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes together with Constitution Avenue , begins a series of great federal buildings , some a block long and all about seven-stories high .
Along this avenue which saw marching soldiers from the War Between the States returning in 1865 is the National Archives building where hundreds of thousands of this country's most valuable records are kept .
Also the department of justice building is located where J. Edgar Hoover presides over the federal bureau of investigation .
Many spectators will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square , opposite the White House .
In this historic square are several statues , but the one that stands out over the others is that of Gen. Andrew Jackson , hero of the Battle of New Orleans .
Moving past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will be at least 40 marching units .
Division two will include the representations of Massachusetts and Texas , the respective states of the President and of Vice-President L. B. Johnson .
Division six will be headed by the Coast Guard , followed by the reserve forces of all services , five states , Puerto Rico , the Virgin Islands , Guam , American Samoa , the trust territories and the Canal Zone .
This is largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected leader of its two million inhabitants -- Gov. Ross Barnett .
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's office .
There are many who predict that should Barnett decide to call the Legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble .
If Barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or special session .
With eyes focused on the third congressional district , the historic Delta district , and Congressman Frank E. Smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers from the Delta have held in the Legislature .
Mississippi's relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads during 1961 , with the first Democratic president in eight years in the White House .
Split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and independents , the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck .
Barnett , as the titular head of the Democratic party , apparently must make the move to reestablish relations with the national Democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist ranks to completely bypass him as a party functionary .
With a Democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity in the November election .
Now , the picture is clouded , and even US Sens. James O. Eastland and John C. Stennis , who remained loyal to the ticket , are uncertain of their status .
Baton Rouge , La.
-- The Gov. Jimmie H. Davis administration appears to face a difficult year in 1961 , with the governor's theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses .
The tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when the Legislature reconvenes .
But if all alternatives should be clearly blocked off , it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature .
City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage of a private contracting company which had `` an inside track '' with the city .
Hemphill said that the Hughes Steel Erection Co. contracted to do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than the `` legitimate '' bids of competing contractors .
The Hughes concern then took `` shortcuts '' on the project but got paid anyway , Hemphill said .
The Controller's charge of rigging was the latest development in an investigation which also brought these disclosures Tuesday :
The Philadelphia Transportation Co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project .
The signature of Harold V. Varani , former director of architecture and engineering in the Department of Public Property , appeared on payment vouchers certifying work on the project .
Managing Director Donald C. Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a period of sharp disagreement on the matter .
The announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city and the PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959 .
The Hughes company and the Consolidated Industries , Inc. , both of 3646 N. 2d St. , filed for reorganization under the Federal bankruptcy law .
On Monday , the Hughes concern was formally declared bankrupt after its directors indicated they could not draw up a plan for reorganization .
Business relations between the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and District Attorney James C. Crumlish , Jr. .
The suit was filed later in the day in Common Pleas Court 7 against the Hughes company and two bonding firms .
Travelers Indemnity Co. and the Continental Casualty Co. .
At Berger's direction , the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case in U. S. District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim there .
The bid from A. Belanger and Sons of Cambridge , Mass. , which listed the same officers as Hughes , was $600 per joint .
Wagner replied , `` Can't you just see the headline : ' City Hooked for $172,000 ' '' ? ?
Douglas M. Pratt , president of the PTC , who attended the meeting , said the transit company is reviewing the work on the El .
`` The PTC is investigating the whole matter '' , Pratt said .
Samuel D. Goodis , representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association , objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing fees , saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged from 48 to 74 percent last year .
Goodis voiced his objection before City Council's Finance Committee .
The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan , spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia , on behalf of association members who operate apartment houses .
A proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman Virginia Knauer , who formerly raised pedigreed dogs .
In reply , Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees .
He reported that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000 to the Women's S.P.C.A. ; ;
City Finance Director Richard J. McConnell indorsed the higher fees , which , he said , had been under study for more than a year .
The new fee schedule also was supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman and Health Commissioner Eugene A. Gillis .
Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian W. Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court Friday , it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A. Davenport , counsel for the widow of the man killed last Nov. 1 by Barnard's hit-run car .
The petitions will be presented in open court to President Judge William F. Dannehower , Davenport said .
Barnard , who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges , was fined $500 by Judge Warren K. Hess , and placed on two years' probation providing he does not drive during that time .
Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery , 39 .
The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project .
One of the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp. to purchase a 1311 acre tract for $12,192,865 .
The tract is bounded by Island Ave. , Dicks Ave. , 61st St. , and Eastwick Ave. .
It is designated as Stage 1 Residential on the Redevelopment Authority's master plan and will feature row houses , garden apartments , four small parks , schools , churches , a shopping center and several small clusters of stores .
The corporation was formed by the Reynolds Metal Co. and the Samuel A. and Henry A. Berger firm , a Philadelphia builder , for work in the project .
The second agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp. , a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders , which is interested in developing part of the project .
The plan for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by Dr. Constantinos A. Doxiadis , former Minister of Reconstruction in Greece and a consulting planner for the New Eastwick Corp. .
The esplanade eliminates Grovers Ave. , which on original plans ran through the center of the development .
Kansas City , Mo. , Feb. 9 ( UPI )
-- The president of the Kansas City local of the International Association of Fire Fighters was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left home for work .
Battalion Chief Stanton M. Gladden , 42 , the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union , suffered multiple fractures of both ankles .
He was in Baptist Memorial hospital .
Gladden's wife and two of his sons , John , 17 , and Jim , 13 , were inside the house .
A $500 reward was offered by the association's local in Kansas City , Kas. .
The association said it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James Mining and Eugene Shiflett .
Ankara , Turkey , Oct. 24 ( AP )
-- Turkish political leaders bowed today to military pressure and agreed to form an emergency national front government with Gen. Cemal Gursel as president .
By-passing the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago , the army general staff , led by Gen. Cedvet Sunay , had set a deadline for the parties to join in a national coalition government .
The army leaders threatened to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen. Gursel as president .
Vincent G. Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant district attorney , it was announced Monday by Charles E. Raymond , District Attorney .
Ierulli will replace Desmond D. Connall who has been called to active military service but is expected back on the job by March 31 .
Ierulli , 29 , has been practicing in Portland since November , 1959 .
He is a graduate of Portland University and the Northwestern College of Law .
Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure is more important than aiding them economically , E. M. Martin , assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the World Affairs Council Monday night .
Martin , who has been in office in Washington , D. C. , for 13 months spoke at the council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel .
He told some 350 persons that the United States' challenge was to help countries build their own societies their own ways , following their own paths .
Insuring that the countries have a freedom of choice , he said , was the biggest detriment to the Soviet Union .
He cited East Germany where after 15 years of Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people in , and added , `` so long as people rebel , we must not give up '' .
By leaving our doors open the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and to compare , he said .
Economically , Martin said , the United States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves .
The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of the country , at what he termed a `` social cost '' .
The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense more plans for the city's schools in event of attack .
The board members , after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs. Ralph H. Molvar , 1409 SW Maplecrest Dr. , said they thought they had already been cooperating .
Chairman C. Richard Mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go .
Dr. Melvin W. Barnes , superintendent , said he thought the schools were waiting for some leadership , perhaps on the national level , to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would `` be more fruitful '' , and that he had found that other school districts were not as far along in their planning as this district .
Mrs. Molvar , who kept reiterating her request that they `` please take a stand '' , said , `` We must have faith in somebody -- on the local level , and it wouldn't be possible for everyone to rush to a school to get their children '' .
Mrs. Molvar asked again that the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program .
-- The statewide meeting of war mothers Tuesday in Salem will hear a greeting from Gov. Mark Hatfield .
Hatfield also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception in the state capitol on Tuesday .
His schedule calls for a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club .
He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans Thursday night in Salem .
On Friday he will go to Portland for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit Judge .
He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon football game .
Beaverton School District No. 48 board members examined blueprints and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a Monday night workshop session .
Board members indicated Monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be taken on Nov. 15 , the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the construction of three new elementary schools .
Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen. Wayne L. Morse , Aj .
Secretary Goldberg and Sen. Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt Hotel at 4:30 p.m. Sunday , Blaine Whipple , executive secretary of the Democratic Party of Oregon , reported Tuesday .
Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps. Edith Green and Al Ullman , Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor Terry Schrunk , all Democrats .
-- Three positions on the Oak Lodge Water district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates .
Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term .
Incumbent William Brod is opposed in his re-election bid by Barbara Njust , Miles C. Bubenik and Frank Lee .
Five candidates seek the place vacated by Secretary Hugh G. Stout .
Seeking this two-year term are James Culbertson , Dwight M. Steeves , James C. Piersee , W.M. Sexton and Theodore W. Heitschmidt .
A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of the Assemblies of God , in session at the Memorial Coliseum .
At the adoption , the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman , general superintendent , commented , `` The Assemblies of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days and has , without compromise , stood for the great truths of the Bible for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives '' .
`` The scriptures , both Old and New Testament , are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation of God to man , the infallible , authoritative rule of faith and conduct '' .
The third belief , in six points , emphasizes the Diety of the Lord Jesus Christ , and :
Friday afternoon the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman was reelected for his second consecutive two-year term as general superintendent of Assemblies of God .
His offices are in Springfield , Mo. .
In his opening address Wednesday the Rev. Mr. Zimmerman , urged the delegates to consider a 10-year expansion program , with `` Breakthrough '' the theme for the first two years .
The Rev. R. L. Brandt , national secretary of the home missions department , stressed the need for the first two years' work .
Talking of the rapid population growth ( upwards of 12,000 babies born daily ) with an immigrant entering the United States every 1-1/2 minutes , he said `` our organization has not been keeping pace with this challenge '' .
`` In 35 years we have opened 7,000 churches '' , the Rev. Mr. Brandt said , adding that the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000 persons .
800 in Southern New England , we have 60 ; ;
To step up the denomination's program , the Rev. Mr. Brandt suggested the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10 years .
-- Encouraging by every means , all existing Assemblies of God churches to start new churches .
U.S. Dist. Judge Charles L. Powell denied all motions made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud trial .
In denying motions for dismissal , Judge Powell stated that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that `` a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators are '' .
Attorney Dwight L. Schwab , in behalf of defendant Philip Weinstein , argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein to the conspiracy , but Judge Powell declared this is a matter for the jury to decide .
Schwab also declared there is no proof of Weinstein's entering a conspiracy to use the U.S. mails to defraud , to which federal prosecutor A. Lawrence Burbank replied :
Miami , Fla. , March 17
-- The Orioles tonight retained the distinction of being the only winless team among the eighteen Major-League clubs as they dropped their sixth straight spring exhibition decision , this one to the Kansas City Athletics by a score of 5 to 3 .
Over the first five frames , Jack Fisher , the big righthander who figures to be in the middle of Oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 American League pennant , held the A's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits .
Then Dick Hyde , submarine-ball hurler , entered the contest and only five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock .
A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill Tuttle tied the game , and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts .
With one down in the eighth , Marv Throneberry drew a walk and stole second as Hyde fanned Tuttle .
Catcher Frank House's throw in an effort to nab Throneberry was wide and in the dirt .
Then Heywood Sullivan , Kansas City catcher , singled up the middle and Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run .
Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of the ninth and gave up the A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman Dick Howser , a wild pitch , and Frank Cipriani's single under Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center .
The Orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion , gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers .
Three were doubles , Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding one .
Bill Kunkel , Bob Hartman and Ed Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium .
The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before Hartman took over in the top of the fourth .
Hartman , purchased by the A's from the Milwaukee Braves last fall , allowed no hits in his scoreless three-inning appearance , and merited the triumph .
Keegan , a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder , gave up the Orioles' last two safeties over the final three frames , escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the Birds threatened but failed to tally .
Whitey Herzog , performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly their strongest team of the spring , worked Keegan for a base on balls .
Pete Ward was sent in for House and , after failing in a bunt attempt , popped to Howser on the grass back of short .
John Powell , batting for Adair , fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches , and Buddy Barker , up for Stepanovich , bounced out sharply to Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest .
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate .
Jim Gentile bounced a hard shot off Kunkel's glove and beat it out for a single , and when Lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman Throneberry's head Brandt took third and Gentile second on the error .
When Robinson tried to stretch his blow into a triple , he was cut down in a close play at third , Tuttle to Andy Carey .
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went like this :
Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet over the scoreboard in right center .
Breeding to Adair to Gentile , setting up Tuttle's 390-foot homer over the wall in left center .
If the Orioles are to break their losing streak within the next two days , it will have to be at the expense of the American League champion New York Yankees , who come in here tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon .
Miami , Fla. , March 17
-- The flavor of Baltimore's Florida Grapefruit League news ripened considerably late today when the Orioles were advised that Ron Hansen has fulfilled his obligations under the Army's military training program and is ready for belated spring training .
The big , 22-year-old shortstop , the 1960 American league `` rookie-of-the-year '' , flew here late this afternoon from Baltimore , signed his contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas City -- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row .
When he was inducted into the Army at Fort Knox , Ky. , Hansen's weight had dropped to 180 -- `` too light for me to be at my best '' he said .
`` I feel good physically '' , Hansen added , `` but I think I'll move better carrying a little less weight than I'm carrying now '' .
The rangy , Albany ( Cal. ) native , a surprise slugging sensation for the Flock last year as well as a defensive whiz , set `` improved fielding '' as his 1961 goal .
`` I think I can do a better job with the glove , now that I know the hitters around the league a little better '' , he said .
Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New York Yankees .
Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm , the Flock's veteran knuckleball specialists , are slated to oppose the American League champions in tomorrow's 8 P.M. contest .
Ryne Duren and Roland Sheldon , a rookie righthander who posted a 15-1 record last year for the Yanks' Auburn ( N.Y. ) farm club of the Class-D New York-Pennsylvania League , are the probable rival pitchers .
Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas and Jerry Walker , 22 , are scheduled to share the Oriole mound chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P.M. encounter .
Ralph Houk , successor to Casey Stengel at the Yankee helm , plans to bring the entire New York squad here from St. Petersburg , including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games .
The famed Yankee Clipper , now retired , has been assisting as a batting coach .
Pitcher Steve Barber joined the club one week ago after completing his hitch under the Army's accelerated wintertime military course , also at Fort Knox , Ky. .
Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit .
`` Take a ride on this one '' , Brooks Robinson greeted Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat , headed for the plate and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield wall tonight .
Just before game time , Robinson's pretty wife , Connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer .
Unfortunately , Brooks's teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers .
Hansen arrived just before nightfall , two hours late , in company with Lee MacPhail ; ;
J. A. W. Iglehart , chairman of the Oriole board of directors , and Public Relations Director Jack Dunn .
Ex-Oriole Clint Courtney , now catching for the A's is all for the American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast .
`` But they shouldda brought in Tokyo , too '' , added Old Scrapiron .
Bowie , Md. , March 17
-- Gaining her second straight victory , Norman B. , Small , Jr.'s Garden Fresh , a 3-year-old filly , downed promising colts in the $4,500 St. Patrick's Day Purse , featured seventh race here today , and paid $7.20 straight .
Toying with her field in the early stages , Garden Fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs .
Richard M. Forbes's Paget , which had what seemed to be a substantial lead in the early stages , tired rapidly nearing the wire and was able to save place money only a head in front of Glen T. Hallowell's Milties Miss .
A bright sun and brisk wind had the track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St. Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program .
Prior to the featured race , the stewards announced that apprentice James P. Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday .
Garden Fresh , the result of a mating of Better Self and Rosy Fingered , seems to improve with each start and appeared to win the St. Patrick's Day Purse with some speed in reserve .
Cleveland , March 17 ( AP )
-- George Kerr , the swift-striding Jamaican , set a meet record in the 600-yard run in the Knights of Columbus track meet tonight , beating Purdue's Dave Mills in a hot duel in 1.10.1 .
Kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out Mills's early pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards .
Both were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by Mal Whitfield .
Then Kerr , a graduate student from Illinois , moved past him on a straightaway and held off Mills's challenge on the final turn .
The crowd at the twenty-first annual K. of C. Games , final indoor meet of the season , got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender , bespectacled woman broke the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run .
Mrs. Grace Butcher , of nearby Chardon , a 27-year-old housewife who has two children , finished in 2.21.6 .
She snapped five tenths of a second off the mark set by Helen Shipley , of Wellsley College , in the National A.A.U. meet in Columbus , Ohio .
San Francisco , March 17 ( AP )
-- Bobby Waters of Sylvania , Ga. , relief quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League , will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at Franklin Hospital here .
St. Petersburg , Fla. , March 17 ( AP )
-- Two errors by New York Yankee shortstop Tony Kubek in the eleventh inning donated four unearned runs and a 5-to-2 victory to the Chicago White Sox today .
-- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the team's plays , Eldon Moritz , ranks fourth in Southwest Conference scoring after three games .
Time stands still every time Moritz , a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran , goes into the field .
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl .
He ran his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before one went astray last Saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of Washington State .
But ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' .
A 208-pound , 6-foot 1-inch senior from Stamford , Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking .
`` This year , coach Royal told me if I'd work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me '' , said Moritz .
He kicked several while playing at Stamford High School , including one that beat Anson , 3-0 , in a 1953 district game .
He went into the Army in March , 1957 , and returned two years later .
Tailback James Saxton already has surpassed his rushing total for his brilliant sophomore season , when he netted 271 yards on 55 carries ; ;
Saxton has made only one second-half appearance this season and that was in the Washington State game , for four plays : he returned the kickoff 30 yards , gained five yards through the line and then uncorked a 56-yard touchdown run before retiring to the bench .
Wingback Jack Collins injured a knee in the Washington State game but insists he'll be ready for Oklahoma .
Last week , when Royal was informed that three Longhorns were among the conference's top four in rushing , he said : `` That won't last long '' .
A good feeling prevailed on the SMU coaching staff Monday , but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's problem : Rice University .
`` We're just real happy for the players '' , Coach Bill Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy .
It was the first time we've been ahead this season ( when John Richey kicked what proved to be the winning field goal ) '' .
Assistant coach John Cudmore described victory as `` a good feeling , I think , on the part of the coaches and the players .
Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon .
He broke that boy ( Air Force fullback Nick Arshinkoff ) in two and knocked him loose from the football '' .
One was on a fourth-down screen pass from the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory .
`` As soon as it started to form , Gannon spotted it '' , Meek said .
`` He timed it just right and broke through there before the boy ( halfback Terry Isaacson ) had time to turn around .
The Air Force's , and the game's , final play , was a long pass by quarterback Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 22 yards .
Except for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice , Meek expects the squad to be physically sound for Rice .
`` Kelsey is very doubtful for the Rice game '' , Meek said .
The game players saw the Air Force film Monday , ran for 30 minutes , then went in , while the reserves scrimmaged for 45 minutes .
`` We'll work hard Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday '' , Meek said , `` and probably will have a good scrimmage Friday .
We'll work out about an hour on Saturday , then we'll work Monday and Tuesday of next week , then taper off '' .
SMU will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game Saturday , Oct. 21 .
-- Held out of Texas Tech's sweat-suits drill Monday at Lubbock was tackle Richard Stafford , who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered in the Raiders' 38-7 loss to Texas A & M Because of its important game with Arkansas coming up Saturday , Baylor worked out in the rain Monday -- mud or no mud .
End Gene Raesz , who broke a hand in the Owl's game with LSU , was back working out with Rice Monday , and John Nichols , sophomore guard , moved back into action after a week's idleness with an ankle injury .
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday .
Halfback Bud Priddy , slowed for almost a month by a slowly-mending sprained ankle , joined TCU's workout Monday .
The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory in four American Football League starts -- a 19-12 triumph over the Denver Broncos -- but their visit will be a short one .
The Texans have two more road games -- at Buffalo and Houston -- before they play for the home folks again , and it looks as if coach Hank Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings .
Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey , who has become one of the game's greatest collectors of quarterbacks , apparently now has found a productive pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers , M. C. Reynolds and Warren Rabb .
Rabb , the former Louisiana State field general , came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston Oilers , defending league champions .
Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about himself , for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid effort against Denver , and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star , Jack Spikes , though he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury .
`` Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game .
The Texans won the game through ball control , with Quarterback Cotton Davidson throwing only 17 passes .
`` We always like to keep the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an explosive attack '' , explained Stram .
The Broncs did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans , but Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off .
The principal tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes , the flashy halfback .
The Texans made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson , the speedy halfback , hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed it for Dallas .
`` That permitted us to start controlling the ball right away '' , said Stram , quipping , `` I think I'll put that play in the book '' .
The early Southwest Conference football leaders -- Texas , Arkansas and Texas A & M -- made a big dent in the statistics last week .
Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards ( 1,065 rushing and 447 passing ) a new SWC high .
Arkansas combined 280 yards rushing with 64 yards passing ( on 5 completions in 7 tosses ) and a tough defense to whip TCU , and A & M , with a 38-point bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950 .
Texas leads in per-game rushing averages , 355 yards , and passing 149 ( to Baylor's 126 ) , but idle Baylor has the best defensive record ( 187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189 ) .
Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness of baseballs currently in use , the major leagues have ordered their own tests , which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis , 5-3 .
It was Nischwitz' third straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning streak to four straight .
They now lead Louisville by a full game on top of the American Association pack .
Nischwitz fanned six and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning .
The Bears took the lead in the first inning , as they did in Sunday's opener , and never lagged .
Dick McAuliffe cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph to open the Bear's attack .
After Al Paschal gruonded out , Jay Cooke walked and Jim McDaniel singled home McAuliffe .
Jay Porter drew a base on balls to fill the bases but Don Wert's smash was knocked down by Rudolph for the putout .
The Bears added two more in the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner , Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil Shartzer's glove .
Chuck Hinton tripled to the rightfield corner , Cliff Cook and Dan Pavletich singled and Gaines' infield roller accounted for the tallies .
The Bears added their last run in the sixth on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert .
Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some good stops and showed a strong arm at third base .
Cliff Cook accounted for three of the Tribe's eight hits .
Mary Dobbs Tuttle was back at the organ .
Among the spectators was the noted exotic dancer , Patti Waggin who is Mrs. Don Rudolph when off the stage .
Lefty Wyman Carey , another Denver rookie , will be on the mound against veteran John Tsitouris at 8 o'clock Tuesday night .
Dallas , Tex. , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Kenny Lane of Muskegon , Mich. , world's seventh ranked lightweight , had little trouble in taking a unanimous decision over Rip Randall of Tyler , Tex. , here Monday night .
St. Paul-Minneapolis , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Billy Gardner's line double , which just eluded the diving Minnie Minoso in left field , drove in Jim Lemon with the winning run with two out in the last of the ninth to give the Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over the Chicago White Sox Monday .
Turk Lown was tagged with the loss , his second against no victories , while Ray Moore won his second game against a single loss .
The Twins tied the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left .
The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on a pair of pop fly hits -- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo Carreon -- a walk and a sacrifice fly .
Jim Landis' 380-foot home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead , but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard .
Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth -- his fourth homer of the campaign -- tied the score and Carreon's first major league home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front .
A double by Green , Allison's run-scoring 2-baser , an infield single by Lemon and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front in the last of the fifth .
Ogden , Utah , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Boston Red Sox Outfielder Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball .
He took a midnight train out of Cleveland Saturday , without an official word to anybody , and has stayed away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno , Nev. , where his wife , former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen , awaited .
She said , when she learned Jackie was heading home : `` I'm just speculating , but I have to think Jack feels he's hurting Boston's chances '' .
The Union Pacific Railroad streamliner , City of San Francisco , stopped in Ogden , Utah , for a few minutes .
Sports Writer Ensign Ritchie of the Ogden Standard Examiner went to his compartment to talk with him .
The conductor said to Ritchie : `` I don't think you want to talk to him .
I told him what Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything he ( Liston ) got was through a keyhole .
Liston is Bill Liston , baseball writer for the Boston Traveler , who quoted Jensen as saying :
And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants' Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree Sunday .
And one of the Milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked , `` Wish I was 40 , and a top-grade big leaguer .
Yes , with Bob Grove , Carl Hubbell , Herb Pennock , Art Nehf , Vernon Gomez , et al .
I remember his beardown performance in a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct. 14 , 1951 , before a new record crowd for the period of 18,792 .
`` Spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked Enos Slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse .
The spectacular Mays , who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25 , joined six other sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings .
Bobby Lowe of Boston was the first to hit four at home and Gil Hodges turned the trick in Brooklyn's Ebbetts Field .
Ed Delahanty and Chuck Klein of the Phillies , the Braves' Joe Adcock , Lou Gehrig of the Yankees , Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky Colavito , then with Cleveland , made their history on the road .
Willie's big day revived the running argument about the relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle .
This is an issue which boils down to a matter of opinion , depending on whether you're an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee .
The Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park .
The Denver-area TV audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs , thanks to a new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked out when his Bears are playing at home .
The last couple of years the Bears management got the business from the `` Living Room Athletic Club '' when games were cut off .
This year , I am told , the CBS network will continue to abide by the rule but NBC will play to a conclusion here .
You would be surprised how many fans purposely stayed away from Bears Stadium last year because of the television policy .
Cincinnati , Ohio ( AP )
-- The powerful New York Yankees won their 19th world series in a 5-game romp over outclassed Cincinnati , crushing the Reds in a humiliating 13-5 barrage Monday in the loosely played finale .
With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both out of action due to injuries , the American League champs still mounted a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers , the most ever used by one team in a series game .
Johnny Blanchard , Mantle's replacement , slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning .
Hector Lopez , subbing for Berra , smashed a 3-run homer off Bill Henry during another 5-run explosion in the fourth .
The Yanks also took advantage of three Cincinnati errors .
In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center , about 400 feet away , with two men on .
Momentarily the Reds were back in the ball game , trailing only 6-3 , but the drive fizzled when John Edwards fouled out with men on second and third and two out .
In the fifth , Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley , but by that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter .
The Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a manager .
Only Bucky Harris , the `` boy-manager '' of Washington in 1924 , and Eddie Dyer of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1946 had accomplished the feat .
-- Nick Skorich , the line coach for the football champion Philadelphia Eagles , was elevated today to head coach .
He succeeds Buck Shaw , who retired at the end of last season .
The appointment was announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain two members of Shaw's staff -- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer .
Skorich was considered the logical choice after the club gave Norm Van Brocklin permission to seek the head coaching job with the Minnesota Vikings , the newest National Football League entry .
Van Brocklin , the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title , was signed by the Vikings last Wednesday .
With Skorich at the helm , the Eagles are expected to put more emphasis on running , rather than passing .
In the past the club depended largely on Van Brocklin's aerials .
Skorich , who is 39 years old , played football at Cincinnati University and then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland with the Pittsburgh Steelers .
He began his coaching career at Pittsburgh Central Catholic High School in 1949 .
He remained there for four years before moving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy , N. Y. .
Four years later he resigned to take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers .
The Eagles signed him for Shaw's staff in 1959 .
At a ceremony in the reception room of Mayor Richardson Dilworth , the Eagles were honored for winning the championship .
With the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to William A. ( ( Bill ) Shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New York Chapter , Baseball Writers' Association of America , at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .
Shea , the chairman of Mayor Wagner's Baseball Committee , will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn , the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves ; ;
Frank Graham , the Journal-American sports columnist ; ;
Bill Mazeroski , the World Series hero of the Pittsburgh Pirates , and Casey Stengel , the former manager of the Yankees .
Stengel will receive the Ben Epstein Good Guy Award .
Mazeroski , whose homer beat the Yankees in the final series game , will receive the Babe Ruth Award as the outstanding player in the 1960 world series .
Graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the William J. Slocum Memorial Award .
To Spahn will go the Sid Mercer Memorial Award as the chapter's player of the year .
The 53-year-old Shea , a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background , is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return of a National League club to New York .
Named by Mayor Wagner three years ago to head a committee that included James A. Farley , Bernard Gimbel and Clint Blume , Shea worked relentlessly .
His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city .
The departure of the Giants and the Dodgers to California left New York with only the Yankees .
When he was unable to bring about immediate expansion , he sought to convince another National League club to move here .
When that failed , he enlisted Branch Rickey's aid in the formation of a third major league , the Continental , with New York as the key franchise .
The Continental League never got off the ground , but after two years it forced the existing majors to expand .
The New York franchise is headed by Mrs. Charles Shipman Payson .
A big-league municipal stadium at Flushing Meadow Park is in the works , and once the lease is signed the local club will be formally recognized by Commissioner Ford C. Frick .
Shea and his wife , Nori , make their home at Sands Point , L. I. .
Bill Jr. , 20 , Kathy , 15 , and Patricia , 9 , round out the Shea family .
He attended New York University before switching to Georgetown University in Washington .
Later , Shea owned and operated the Long Island Indians , a minor league professional football team .
He was the lawyer for Ted Collins' old Boston Yankees in the National Football League .
All was quiet in the office of the Yankees and the local National Leaguers yesterday .
On Friday , Roger Maris , the Yankee outfielder and winner of the American League's most-valuable-player award , will meet with Roy Hamey , the general manager .
Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association tonight .
The dinner will be held at the Hotel Pierre .
Palmer , golf's leading money-winner in 1960 , and Snead will be saluted as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin .
Deane Beman , the National Amateur champion , and all the metropolitan district champions , including Bob Gardner , the amateur title-holder , also will receive awards .
The writers' Gold Tee Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield , N. J. , and Palm Beach , Fla. , for his sponsorship of charity tournaments .
Horton Smith of Detroit , a former president of the Professional Golfers Association , will receive the Ben Hogan Trophy for his comeback following a recent illness .
The principal speaker will be Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri .
He won the Masters , the United States Open and a record $80,738 in prize money .
He was heralded as `` Sportsman of the Year '' by Sports Illustrated , and last night was acclaimed in Rochester as the `` Professional Athlete of the Year '' , a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond-studded Hickok Belt .
The world's best golfer , shooting below par , came to the last hole of the opening round of the Los Angeles open with every intention of delivering a final crusher .
From the standpoint of the army of duffers , however , this was easily the most heartening exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open .
The idol of the hackers , of course , is Ray Ainsley , who achieved a 19 in the United States Open .
Their secondary hero is another pro , Willie Chisholm , who drank his lunch during another Open and tried to blast his way out of a rock-strewn gully .
Willie's partner was Long Jim Barnes , who tried to keep count .
`` Thirteen '' , said Long Jim .
Arnold sent for Joe Dey , the executive secretary of the golf association .
`` I knew it all along '' , confessed Arnold with a grin , `` but I just happened to think how much nicer it would be to drop one way up there '' .
Until a few weeks ago , however , Arnold Palmer was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers .
But after that 12 at Los Angeles he became one of the boys , a bigger hero than he ever had been before .
A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings and the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the Hotel Warwick today .
If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies , they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season .
They have the same men , no age problem , no injuries and they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season , along with Bobby Shantz '' .
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals , who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960 , breaking even with them , will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions .
The Pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the Redbirds are 7-9 .
Solly Hemus announced a switch in his starting pitcher , from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio , for several reasons : 1 Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark against Pittsburgh a year ago ; ;
3 The Redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse against the Phillies Sunday .
Manager Hemus , eager to end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games on the current home stand , moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting assignment .
After Thursday's open date , Solly plans to open with Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night .
Harvey Haddix , set back by the flu this season , will start against his former Cardinal mates , who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium .
Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's game .
After a lengthy workout yesterday , an open date , Hemus said that Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup .
That means Stan Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his record five-home run day against the Giants .
`` I have to stay with Nieman for a while '' , Hemus said .
With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh , I may use Don Taussig in center '' .
`` Lindy McDaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes , and he looked good '' , Hemus said .
The statistics hardly indicated that the Pirates needed extra batting practice , but Murtaugh also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday .
Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati over the weekend , the champions had eight men hitting over .
Despite the recession , Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list of averages : Smoky Burgess , Gino Cimoli , Bill Virdon , Bob Clemente and Dick Groat , each
, Dick Stuart , Don Hoak
Bill Mazeroski with and Hal Smith with were the only Pirates dragging their feet .
Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend , who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home runs .
`` We're getting Friend some runs for a change , and he has been pitching good '' , Murtaugh said .
The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May 1 last year , when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them even over the season .
On last May 1 , the Cardinals stood at 7-6 , ending a two-season fall-off on that milestone .
In 1958 , the Birds were 3-10 on May 1 .
Since 1949 , the St. Louis club has been below on May 1 just four times .
The '52 Cards were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs , the club's top since 1949 .
Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on May 19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories .
Since 1949 , the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team .
Those Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game lead by May 8 .
The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable period to win the pennant was New York's '51 Giants , who dropped 11 of their first 13 .
Speakers at a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St. Louis University players who , in the words of Coach John Benington , `` had more confidence in themselves than I did '' .
The most valuable player award was split three ways , among Glen Mankowski , Gordon Hartweger and Tom Kieffer .
In addition , a special award was given to Bob ( Bevo ) Nordmann , the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of the season because of a knee injury .
We'd be losing at halftime to a good team and Hartweger would say , ' Don't worry , Coach -- we'll get 'em all right ' '' .
The trio who shared the most-valuable honors were introduced by Bob Broeg , sports editor of the Post-Dispatch .
Mankowski , the ball-hawking defensive expert , was cited for his performance against Bradley in St. Louis U.'s nationally televised victory .
Benington said , `` I've never seen a player have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day '' .
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills .
After the coach listed all the boy's faults , Hartweger said , `` Coach before I leave here , you'll get to like me '' .
Mrs. Benington admired Gordon's spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy might help the team .
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' .
Bob Burnes , sports editor of the Globe-Democrat , presented Bob Nordmann with his award .
Within a week after the injury , suffered in St. Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament , Nordmann was sitting on the Bill's bench doing what he could to help Benington .
On the clock given him was the inscription , `` For Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball , 1960-61 '' .
Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were : Art Hambric , Donnell Reid , Bill Nordmann , Dave Harris , Dave Luechtefeld and George Latinovich .
`` By winning against Bradley , Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams' home courts , they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome anywhere and that it doesn't take a super team to do it '' .
St. Louis University found a way to win a baseball game .
Larry Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game , said to be the first in Billiken baseball history , as the Blue and White beat Southeast Missouri State College , 5-1 , at Crystal City .
The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday .
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double , Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave Ritchie had a home run and a triple .
St. Louis U. was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington University at Ligget Field .
The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy , Ill. , Saturday .
The two top talents of the time , Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays , have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which , to be frank about it , never have quite reached expectations .
Mantle , the bull-necked blond switch-hitter , had one sensational triple-crown season , 1959 , when he batted and also led the American League in home runs , 52 , and rbi's , 130 .
Like the Yankees' slugger , Mays , the terror of the Giants , has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by most players , but not by -- or for -- Willie .
Now , apparently happier under new managers , Mays and Mantle , the perfect players , are behaving as though they're going to pass those previous peaks .
For that matter , Stan Musial is rare , possessing the disposition that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers , reserving his opinions , but not his effort .
Mantle , it's apparent , resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility .
Stengel inherited DiMaggio , Rizzuto , but he brought up Mantle from Class C to the majors , from Joplin to New York .
With the speed and power of the body beautiful he saw before him , Ol' Case wanted No. 7 to be not only the best homerun hitter , but also the best bunter , base-runner and outfielder .
Inheriting a more mature Mantle , who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway , Ralph Houk quietly bestowed , no pun intended , the mantle of authority on Mickey .
The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule , pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr. , Mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books , Babe Ruth's 60 homers of 1927 .
Mays' day came a day earlier for Willie than for the kids and Commies this year .
Willie's wonderful walloping Sunday -- four home runs -- served merely to emphasize how happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark .
Next to Leo Durocher , Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month , to help the Giants win a dramatic pennant .
Romantic news concerns Mrs. Joan Monroe Armour and F. Lee H. Wendell , who are to be married at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Lake Forest home of her brother , J. Hampton Monroe , and Mrs. Monroe .
The bride's brother , Walter D. Monroe Jr. , will give her in marriage .
In the small group will be the junior and senior Mrs. Walter Monroe ; ;
the bridegroom's parents , the Barrett Wendells , who are returning from a winter holiday in Sarasota , Fla. , for the occasion ; ;
and his brother , Mr. Wendell Jr. , and his wife , who will arrive from Boston .
Mr. Wendell Jr. will be best man .
Also present will be the bride's children , Joan , 13 , and Kirkland , 11 .
Their father is Charles B. Armour .
Young Peter Wendell , a student at the Westminster school , has measles , and his sister , Mrs. Andrew Thomas , and her husband , who live in Missoula , Mont. , have a new baby .
Their mother is Mrs. Camilla Alsop Wendell .
Mr. Wendell and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house .
`` We are back with the ' Met ' again now that the ' Met ' is back in Chicago '' , bulletins Mrs. Frank S. Sims , president of the women's board of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation .
The New York Metropolitan Opera Company will be here in May , and the board will sponsor the Saturday night , May 13 , performance of `` Turandot '' as a benefit .
`` Housed in the new McCormick Place theater , this should prove to be an exciting evening '' , adds Mrs. Sims .
The board's last money raising event was a performance by Harry Belafonte -- `` quite off-beat for this group '' , decided some of the members .
Mrs. Henry T. Sulcer of Winnetka , a new board member , will be chairman of publicity for the benefit .
Because of the recent death of the bride's father , Frederick B. Hamm , the marriage of Miss Terry Hamm to John Bruce Parichy will be a small one at noon tomorrow in St. Bernadine's church , Forest Park .
A small reception will follow in the Oak Park Arms hotel .
Mrs. Hamm will not come from Vero Beach , Fla. , for the wedding .
However , Mr. Parichy and his bride will go to Vero Beach on their wedding trip , and will stay in the John G. Beadles' beach house .
The Beadles formerly lived in Lake Forest .
Harvey B. Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in marriage .
Mr. and Mrs. Stevens and the bride's other uncles and aunts , the Rush C. Butlers , the Homer E. Robertsons , and the David Q. Porters , will give the bridal dinner tonight in the Stevenses' home .
The Chicago Press club will fete George E. Barnes , president of the United States Lawn Tennis association , at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow .
Later , a bus will carry members to the Chicago Stadium to see Jack Kramer's professional tennis matches at 8 p.m. .
With loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St. Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears , its director , Helen Tieken Geraghty ( Mrs. Maurice P. Geraghty ) is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International Trade fair .
Armed with letters from embassies to ministers of countries , especially those in the near and far east , Mrs. Geraghty `` will beat the bushes for oriental talent '' .
`` We ( the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry ) expect to establish closer relations with nations and their cultural activities , and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts '' , explains Mrs. Geraghty .
`` For instance , Djakarta , Indonesia , has three groups of dancers interested in coming here .
The last obstacle in Mrs. Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that his brother would meet her at the border of that country -- so newly separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't been able to obtain a visa .
Honolulu will be Mrs. Geraghty's first stop .
Then Japan , Hong Kong , Manila , India , Pakistan , Damascus , Beirut , and to Rome , London , and Paris `` to look over wonderful talent '' .
Dec. 22 is the deadline for Mrs. Geraghty's return ; ;
the Geraghtys' youngest daughter , Molly , bows in the Passavant Debutante Cotillion the next night .
Also , invitations have been addressed to Molly's debut tea the afternoon of Dec. 29 in the Arts club .
It won't be a `` tea '' , however , but more of an international folk song festival , with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas songs from around the world .
The international theme will be continued with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will give in the Racquet club after the tea .
Miss Abra Prentice's debut supper dance in the Casino will wind up the day .
The Richard S. Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting for the wedding reception for their daughter , Helen Lambert , and the young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during her junior year at Smith college .
He is Aldo Rostagno , son of the Guglielmo Rostagnos of Florence whom the Burkes met last year in Europe .
The Burkes , who now live in Kankakee , are telling friends of the engagement .
Miss Burke , a graduate of Miss Hall's school , stayed on in Florence as a career girl .
Her fiance , who is with a publishing firm , translates many books from English into Italian .
He will be coming here on business in December , when the wedding is to take place in Wayne .
Miss Burke will arrive in December also .
A farewell supper Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Sethness Jr. planned Sunday for Italian Consul General and Mrs. Giacomo Profili has been canceled because Mr. Sethness is in Illinois Masonic hospital for surgery .
Mrs. William Odell , Mrs. Clinton B. King , John Holabird Jr. , Norman Boothby , and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow in the Germania club .
The party is to raise money for the Old Town Art center and to plant more crabapple trees along the streets of Old Town .
Lyon around : Columnist Walter Winchell , well and rat-a-tat-tatty again , wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route to his Phoenix , Ariz. , rancho , portable typewriter in hand .
If W. W.'s retiring soon , as hinted , he ain't talking -- yet .
Pretty Sunny Ainsworth , the ex-Mrs. Tommy Manville and the ex-Mrs. Bud Arvey , joined Playboy-Show-Biz Illustrated , as a promotional copy writer .
Comic Gary Morton signed to play the Living Room here Dec. 18 , because that's the only time his heart , Lucille Ball , can come along .
The Living Room has another scoop : Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club singing appearances there , opening Jan. 22 .
La Russell's run in `` Skylark '' , debuting next week at Drury Lane , already is a sellout .
Johnny Ray , at the same L. R. , has something to cry about .
Charley Simonelli , top Universal-International film studio exec , makes an honest man out of this column .
As we bulletin'd way back , he'll wed pretty Rosemary Strafaci , of the Golf Mag staff , in N. Y. C. today .
Handsome bachelor Charley was a favorite date of many of Hollywood's glamor gals for years .
George Simon , exec director of Danny Thomas A. L. S. A. C. ( Aiding Leukemia Stricken American Children ) fund raising group , filled me in on the low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's St. Jude hospital in Memphis .
The only current event they're staging is the big show at the Stadium Nov. 25 , when Danny will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids .
You can mail contribs to Danny Thomas , Post Office Box 7599 , Chicago .
Olivia De Havilland signed to do a Broadway play for Garson Kanin this season , `` A Gift of Time '' .
She'll move to Gotham after years in Paris .
Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby , Marty Melcher , drive in today from a motor tour thru New England .
D. D. will pop up with U-I Chief Milt Rackmil at the Carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors .
It'll be an all day affair with screenings of Doris' new one , `` Lover Come Back '' , and `` Flower Drum Song '' .
Whee the People : Lovely Thrush Annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to apply glamor touches to her hubby , Ray Lenobel's fur firm here .
Typical touch : She sold a $10,000 morning light mink to Sportsman Freddie Wacker for his frau , Jana Mason , also an ex-singer .
Emcee Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor of California is , `` Knight Must Fall '' ! !
Give generously when you buy candy today for the Brain Research Foundation .
Best Bet for Tonight : That darlin' dazzler from Paree , Genevieve , opening in the Empire room .
Dave Trager , who is quite a showman and boss of Chicago's new pro basketball Packers , is debuting a new International club , for the exclusive use of season ticket holders , in the Stock Yards Inn .
Jump off is tomorrow night when the Packs meet St. Louis in their season home opener .
Nobody's mentioned it , but when ol' Casey Stengel takes over as boss of the New York Mets , he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all New York area clubs , past and present : Yankees , Dodgers , Giants , and now the Mets .
And Bernie Kriss calls the bayonet clashes at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate , `` The Battle of the Sentry '' ! !
The jotted Lyon : This mad world dept. : Khrush and the Kremlin crowd are confident all right .
Albert John Luthuli , awarded a Nobel prize for his South African integration struggles , has to get permission to fly to collect his honor .
Hmpf But on to the frothier side Johnny Weissmuller , the only real Tarzan , telephoned Maureen O'Sullivan , his first `` Jane '' ( now at Drury Lane ) and muttered , `` Me Tarzan , this Jane '' ? ?
Snapped Maureen , `` Me Jane '' ! !
`` La Dolce Vita '' , the dynamite Italian flicker , opens at popular prices at the Loop theater Nov. 2 .
William keeps up with our town's doings daily , via the Tribune , and he tells me he never misses the Ticker .
Jean Fardulli's Blue Angel is the first top local club to import that crazy new dance , the Twist .
A cheer here for Francis Lorenz , state treasurer , who will meet with the probate advisory board of the Chicago Bar association , for suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after somebody dies .
After being closed for seven months , the Garden of the Gods Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday , June 3 .
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June .
Gene Marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the Garden of the Gods will open to members Thursday , June 1 .
Beginning July 4 , there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday and Monday for the summer season .
Mrs. J. Edward Hackstaff and Mrs. Paul Luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , who celebrates her birthday on Tuesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Chase announce the birth of a daughter , Sheila , on Wednesday in Mercy Hospital .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Chase and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Mullenax of Kittredge .
Mrs. Chase is the former Miss Mary Mullenax .
Mrs. McIntosh Buell will leave Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara , Calif. , after spending a week in her Polo Grounds home .
Mrs. John C. Vroman Jr. of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman Plaza apartment .
Mr. and Mrs. Merrill Shoup have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few days at the Brown Palace Hotel .
Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Robert F. McDermott will entertain at a black tie dinner Wednesday , May 3 , in the Officers' Club at the Air Force Academy .
Mr. and Mrs. Piero De Luise will honor Italian Consul and Mrs. Emilio Bassi at a cocktail party Tuesday , May 2 , from 6 to 8 p.m. in their home .
There will be a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season .
Miss Betsy Parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security Life Bldg. .
The committee for the annual Central City fashion show has been announced by Mrs. D. W. Moore , chairman .
The event , staged yearly by Neusteters , will be held in the Opera House Wednesday , Aug. 16 .
It will be preceded by luncheon in the Teter House .
Mrs. Roger Mead is head of the luncheon table decorations .
Mrs. Stanley Wright is ticket chairman and Mrs. Theodore Pate is in charge of publicity .
Members of the committee include Mrs. Milton Bernet , Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , Mrs. Rollie W. Bradford , Mrs. Samuel Butler Jr. , Mrs. Donald Carr Campbell , Mrs. Douglas Carruthers , Mrs. John C. Davis 3 , , Mrs. Cris Dobbins , Mrs. William E. Glass , Mrs. Alfred Hicks 2 , , Mrs. Donald Magarrell , Mrs. Willett Moore , Mrs. Myron Neusteter , Mrs. Richard Gibson Smith , Mrs. James S. Sudier 2 , and Mrs. Thomas Welborn .
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Kelsey of Washington , D.C. , announce the birth of a daughter , Kira Ann Kelsey , on Monday in Washington , D.C. .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. R.L. Rickenbaugh and Mr. and Mrs. E.O. Kelsey of Scarsdale , N.Y. .
Mrs. Kelsey is the former Miss Ann Rickenbaugh .
Those qualities make Esther Marr a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social Center at 1200 Larimer St. .
The pert , gray-haired woman who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo , N.Y. , is a `` civilian '' with the Army .
Her day starts early , but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written ( and during May , which is National Salvation Army Week , there are plenty ) , schedules to be made or problems to be solved , Mrs. Marr's office is always open and the welcome mat is out .
Mrs. Marr is the first contact a Skid Row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up .
`` Usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , Mrs. Marr explained .
`` And I bum tickets to everything I can '' , she said .
In addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , Mrs. Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system .
By July 1 , six weeks from now , motel-keepers all over the nation will , by 6 p.m. , be switching on that bleak -- to motorists -- sign , `` No Vacancy '' .
My husband and I , a month ahead of the rush , have just finished a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson , Ariz. , to New York City :
There are even motels for local weather peculiarities in Shamrock , Tex. , as I discovered .
There the Royal Motel advertises `` all facilities , vented heat , air conditioned , carpeted , free TV , storm cellar '' .
Innumerable motels from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ( `` swim at your own risk '' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools ) .
But the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar .
Motorists like myself who can remember the old `` tourists accommodated '' signs on farm houses and village homes before World War 2 , can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business .
At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester , Va. , we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite , an elegant affair with wall-to-wall carpeting , gold and white furniture , pink satin brocade chairs , 24-inch TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels .
That made up for the `` best '' motel in Norman , Okla. , where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture .
Oxnard , Calif. , will be the home of the Rev. Robert D. Howard and his bride , the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay , who were married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church .
Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Ferris M. Gay , 7034 Coronado .
The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. James Baines of Los Angeles , Calif. , and Carl E. Howard of Santa Monica , Calif. .
He is a graduate of UCLA and Perkins School of Theology , Aj .
Dr. W. B. I. Martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
Honor attendants for the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V. McRoberts .
The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park , Calif. .
Miss Joan Frances Baker , a graduate of SMU , was married Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason , an honor graduate of Lamar State College of Technology , in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston .
The bride , daughter of Rhodes Semmes Baker Jr. of Houston and the late Mrs. Baker , was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at Aj .
Her husband , who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport , La. , and the late Mrs. Henry Cater Parmer , was president of Alpha Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech , and did graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown , South Africa , on a Rotary Fellowship .
The Rev. Richard Freeman of Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs. Marvin Hand presented music .
Miss Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were Miss Pat Dawson of Austin , Mrs. Howard M. Dean of Hinsdale , Ill. , and Mrs. James A. Reeder of Shreveport , La. .
Cecil Mason of Hartford , Conn. , was best man for his brother , and groomsmen were Rhodes S. Baker 3 , of Houston , Dr. James Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans , La. .
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith , both of Houston , and Alfred Neumann of Beaumont seated guests .
After a reception at The Mayfair , the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. .
They will live in Corpus Christi .
Miss Shirley Joan Meredith , a former student of North Texas State University , was married Saturday to Larry W. Mills , who has attended Arlington State College .
They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi .
Parents of the couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs. Meredith and Mrs. Hardy P. Mills of Floresville and the late Mr. Mills .
The Rev. Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church .
Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid of honor , and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man .
Robert Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr. seated guests .
The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl Loving Jr. , who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip to New Orleans , La.
The bride , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa , has attended Texas Woman's University and will continue her studies at Aj .
`` A Night in New Orleans '' is the gayety planned by members of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club .
Mrs. H. J. Grinsfelder is chairman .
The Louisiana city is known , of course , for its fine food , good music and its colorful hospitality `` and , when guests arrive at Philmont that night '' , says Mrs. Grinsfelder , `` that is exactly what we expect to offer them .
Basin Street Beat
But she does indicate festivities will start early , that a jazz combo will `` give with the Basin Street beat '' during the cocktail and dinner hours and that Lester Lanin's orchestra will take over during the dancing .
As for food , Mrs. Henry Louchheim , chairman of this phase , is a globetrotter who knows good food .
But we have lots of other New Orleans specialties .
Guests will be treated to Gulf Coast scenic effects .
There will be masses of flowers , reproductions of the handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are typical of New Orleans .
Mrs. Harry K. Cohen is chairman of this phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A. Van Hollander , display director of Gimbel Brothers .
The gala is the Thrift Shop's annual bundle party and , as all Thrift Shop friends know , that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition , contributions of household equipment , bric-a-brac and such to stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St. .
The Thrift Shop , with Mrs. Bernhard S. Blumenthal as president , is one of the city's most successful fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies .
`` Big business , this little Thrift Shop business '' , say the members .
Mrs. Theodore Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala .
Mrs. Richard Newburger is chairman of hostesses .
Mrs. Arthur Loeb is making arrangements for a reception ; ;
Mrs. Joan Lichtenstein , for publicity ; ;
Mrs. Harry M. Rose , Jr. , for secretarial duties ; ;
Mrs. Ralph Taussig , for junior aides ; ;
Mr. and Mrs. B. Lewis Kaufnabb , for senior aides , and Mrs. Samuel P. Weinberg , for the bundles .
In addition , Mr. and Mrs. Allan Goodman are controllers , Mrs. Paul Stone is treasurer and Mrs. Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing at 9 P.m. .
Besides the bundle centers where contributions may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party .
The women's committee of St. David's Church will hold its annual pre-Fair pink parade , a dessert bridge and fashion show at 1 p.m. on Monday , April 17 , in the chapel assembly room , Wayne .
Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle is chairman of the committee , which includes Mrs. James A. Moody , Mrs. Frank C. Wilkinson , Mrs. Ethel Coles , Mrs. Harold G. Lacy , Mrs. Albert W. Terry , Mrs. Henry M. Chance , 2d , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Jr. , Mrs. Harcourt N. Trimble , Jr. , Mrs. John A. Moller , Mrs. Robert Zeising , Mrs. William G. Kilhour , Mrs. Hughes Cauffman , Mrs. John L. Baringer and Mrs. Clyde Newman .
The fashion show , by Natalie Collett will have Mrs. John Newbold as commentator .
Models will be Mrs. Samuel B. D. Baird , Mrs. William H. Meyle , Jr. , Mrs. Richard W. Hole , Mrs. William F. Harrity , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Mrs. E. H. Kloman , Mrs. Robert W. Wolcott , Jr. , Mrs. Frederick C. Wheeler , Jr. , Mrs. William A Boyd , Mrs F. Vernon Putt .
Col. Clifton Lisle , of Chester Springs , who headed the Troop Committee for much of its second and third decades , is now an honorary member .
Mrs. John Charles Cotty is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs. Francis G. Felske and Mrs. Francis Smythe , of posters .
`` Meet the Artist '' is the invitation issued by members of the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9 .
Mrs. Monte Tyson , chairman , says the work of 100 artists well known in the Delaware Valley area will be included in the exhibition and sale .
Among them will be Marc Shoettle , Ben Shahn , Nicholas Marsicano , Alfred Van Loen and Milton Avery .
The event is the sixth on the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of Jewish Women .
It originated with the Wissahickon Section .
Mrs. Jerome Blum and Mrs. Meyer Schultz are co-chairmen this year .
Assisting as chairmen of various committees are Mrs. Alvin Blum , Mrs. Leonard Malmud , Mrs. Edward Fernberger , Mrs. Robert Cushman .
Also Mrs. Berton Korman , Mrs. Morton Rosen , Mrs. Jacques Zinman , Mrs. Evelyn Rosen , Mrs. Henry Schultz , Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Kamens , Mrs. Jack Langsdorf , Mrs. Leonard Liss , Mrs. Gordon Blumberg , Mrs. Oscar Bregman , Mrs. Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs. Edward Sabol .
Dr. and Mrs. N. Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr. and Mrs. John J. Evans , Jr. , of `` Kimbolton House '' , Rockhall , Md. .
Mrs. Edward App will entertain the members of her Book Club on Tuesday .
Mrs. A. Voorhees Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home , on Monday .
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson were entertained at dinner on Sunday by Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coulson , of Fairless Hills .
Mr. and Mrs. Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Glennon , and their children will spend several days in Brigantine , N. J. .
Mr. and Mrs. James Janssen announce the birth of a daughter , Patricia Lynn Janssen , on March 2 .
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Marella announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Mary Ann Marella , to Mr. Robert L. Orcutt , son of Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Orcutt , of Drexel Hill .
Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida .
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr. Walter Lehner , of Vienna ; ;
Mr. Ingo Dussa , of Dusseldorf , Germany , and Mr. Bietnar Haaek , of Brelin .
Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Hoaps , Jr. have returned to their home in Drexel Park , after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla. .
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Mitchell , with their daughter , Anne , and son , James , Jr. are spending several weeks in Florida , and will visit in Clearwater .
Cmdr. Warren Taylor , USN. , and Mrs. Taylor , of E. Greenwich , R. I. , will have with them for the Easter holidays the latter's parents , Mr. and Mrs. John B. Walbridge , of Drexel Hill .
Mr. and Mrs. L. DeForest Emmert , formerly of Drexel Hill , and now of Newtown Square , are entertaining Mr. and Mrs. Ashman E. Emmert , of Temple , Pa. .
Mrs. William H. Merner , of Drexel Park , entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda .
Mrs. H. E. Godwin will entertain the members of her Book Club at her home on Tuesday .
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Peter Vieth announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Susan Ann Vieth , to Mr. Conrad Wall 3 , , son of Dr. Conrad Wall 2 , , and Mrs. Nell Kennedy Wall .
Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S. McGehee school and is attending Wellesley College in Wellesley , Mass. .
Her mother is the former Miss Stella Hayward .
Mr. Wall is a student at Tulane university , where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity .
Their Majesties , The Queen of Carnival and The Queen of Comus , have jointly issued invitations for Shrove Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and Comus .
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McConnell and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Walker will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State St. home of the Walkers honoring Mrs. McConnell's debutante niece , Miss Barbara Williams .
Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will be Mrs. Edwin Socola of Waveland , Miss. .
She will entertain at a Vieux Carre restaurant at 1 o'clock in the early afternoon .
Another debutante , Miss Virginia Richmond , will also be the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs. John Dane , will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel .
Miss Katherine Vickery , who attends Sweet Briar College in Virginia , will rejoin her father , Dr. Eugene Vickery , at the family home in Richmond pl. Wednesday for part of the Carnival festivities .
When the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival masquerade ball , Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the festivities , presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne , Eleanor Eustis , Lynn Chapman , Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville , Miss. and Helene Rowley .
The mother of young queen , Mrs. G. Henry Pierson Jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back .
Mrs. Thomas Jordan selected a black taffeta frock made with a skirt of fringed tiers and worn with crimson silk slippers .
Mrs. Clayton Nairne , whose daughter , was among the court maids , chose a deep greenish blue lace gown .
Mrs. Fenwick Eustis , whose daughter was also a maid to the queen , wore an ashes of roses slipper satin gown .
Mrs. Peter Feringa Jr. , last year's Achaeans' queen , chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle .
Mrs. Eustis Reily's olive-green street length silk taffeta dress was embroidered on the bodice with gold threads and golden sequins and beads .
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary cuts and lay-offs effective at 12:01 A.M. next Saturday .
Howard E. Simpson , the railroad's president , said , `` A drastic decline in freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action '' .
The reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in which the B. & O. operates .
Since the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members under contract , it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some of the men on furlough , a B. & O. spokesman said .
A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount Streets .
The victim , Norman B. Wiley , 38 , of the 900 block North Charles Street , was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery .
He said the assailant , who was armed with a automatic , entered the taxi at Pennsylvania Avenue and Gold Street .
In another attack , Samuel Verstandig , 41 , proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken Street , told police two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash register after choking and beating him .
A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel county home .
The victim Darnell Somerville , Negro , 1 , was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis .
His sister and brother , Marie Louise , 3 , and John Raymond , Jr. 22 months , were admitted to the hospital .
Police said the children's mother , Mrs. Eleanor Somerville , was visiting next door when the fire occurred .
The house is on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park , at Jones Station , police said .
-- The Anne Arundel county school superintendent has asked that the Board of Education return to the practice of recording its proceedings mechanically so that there will be no more question about who said what .
The proposal was made by Dr. David S. Jenkins after he and Mrs. D. Ellwood Williams , Jr. , a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent , argued for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting .
The disagreement was over what Dr. Jenkins had said at a previous session and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following meeting .
Mrs. Williams had a list which she said contained about nine or ten discrepancies between her memory of Dr. Jenkins's conversation and how they were written up for the board's approval .
`` I hate to have these things come up again and again '' , Dr. Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion .
It was about that time , a board member said later , that Dr. Thomas G. Pullen , Jr. , State superintendent of schools , told Dr. Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him .
The Board of County Commissioners , the Sanitary Commission , the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their meetings .
Dr. Jenkins notes , however , that most of the school boards in the State do not do so .
State Senator Joseph A. Bertorelli ( D. , First Baltimore ) had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block of West Pratt Street .
He was taken to University Hospital in a municipal ambulance .
Police said he became ill while parked in front of a barber shop at 229 West Pratt Street .
He called Vincent L. Piraro , proprietor of the shop , who summoned police and an ambulance .
The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday that there are `` deficiencies '' in the city's snow clearing program which should be corrected as soon as possible .
Councilman William D. Schaefer ( D. , Fifth ) said in a letter to Mayor Grady that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month .
Conceding that several cities to the north were in worse shape than Baltimore after the last storm , Mr. Schaefer listed several improvements he said should be made in the snow plan here .
Equipment should be in operation `` almost immediately after the first snowfall '' , Mr. Schaefer said .
The Councilman , who is the Administration floor leader , also criticized Bernard L. Werner , public works director , for `` halting snow operations '' on Tuesday night after the Sunday storm .
What he did , Mr. Werner said , was let manual laborers go home Tuesday night for some rest .
-- The 15-year-old adopted son of a Washington attorney and his wife , who were murdered early today in their Chesapeake Bay-front home , has been sent to Spring Grove State Hospital for detention .
The victims were H. Malone Dresbach , 47 , and his wife , Shirley , 46 .
automatic rifle , according to Capt. Elmer Hagner , chief of Anne Arundel detectives .
Judge Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel County Jail .
The Circuit Court jurist said the boy will have a hearing in Juvenile Court .
Soon after 10 A.M. , when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick home in the Franklin Manor section , 15 miles south of here on the bay , in response to a call from the Dresbach's other son , Lee , 14 , they found Mrs. Dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor .
The description of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland on police radio .
Trooper J. A. Grzesiak spotted the wanted car , with three boys , at a Route 2 service station , just outside Annapolis .
The driver admitted he was the Dresbachs' son and all three were taken to the Edgewater Station , police said .
-- Governor Tawes today appointed Lloyd L. Simpkins , his administrative assistant , as Maryland's Secretary of State .
Mr. Simpkins will move into the post being vacated by Thomas B. Finan , earlier named Attorney General to succeed C. Ferdinand Sybert , who will be elevated to an associate judgeship on the Maryland Court of Appeals .
Governor Tawes announced that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office next Friday .
Mr. Simpkins is a resident of Somerset county , and he and the Governor , also a Somerset countian , have been friends since Mr. Simpkins was a child .
Now 38 , Mr. Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's College of Agriculture in 1947 .
Mr. Simpkins made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from 1951 through 1958 .
From the outset of his first term , he established himself as one of the guiding spirits of the House of Delegates .
Maryland contracts for future construction during October totaled $77,389,000 , up to 10 per cent compared to October , 1960 , F. W. Dodge , Dodge Corporation , reported .
Although economic and personal circumstances vary widely among those now choosing apartments , Leo J. Pantas , vice president of a hardware manufacturing company , pointed out recently that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common : a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems involved in maintaining a house .
Sixty-seven living units are being added to the 165-unit Harbor View Apartments in the Cherry Hill section .
-- Vital secrets of Britain's first atomic submarine , the Dreadnought , and , by implication , of the entire United States navy's still-building nuclear sub fleet , were stolen by a London-based soviet spy ring , secret service agents testified today .
The Dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the United States in 1959 and was launched last year .
It has a hull patterned on that of the United States navy's Nautilus , the world's first atomic submarine .
Its power unit , however , was derived from the reactor of the more modern American nuclear submarine Skipjack .
The announcement that the secrets of the Dreadnought had been stolen was made in Bow St. police court here at the end of a three day hearing .
Two British civil servants , Miss Ethel Gee , 46 , and her newly devoted friend , Harry Houghton , 55 , and divorced .
Gordon A. Lonsdale , 37 , a mystery man presumed to be Russian although he carries a Canadian passport .
A shadowy couple who call themselves Peter Kroger , bookseller , and wife , Joyce .
( In Washington , the Federal Bureau of Investigation identified the Krogers as Morris and Lola Cohen , an American couple formerly of New York City )
In their suburban cottage the crown charges , the Krogers received secrets from the mystery man , usually on the first Saturday evening of each month , and spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to Moscow , either on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted over period marks in used books .
Only Miss Gee asked for bail .
Her young British lawyer , James Dunlop , pleaded that she was sorely needed at her Portland home by her widowed mother , 80 , her maiden aunt , also 80 and bedridden for 20 years , and her uncle , 76 , who once ran a candy shop .
The trial will be held , probably the first week of March , in the famous Old Bailey central criminal court where Klaus Fuchs , the naturalized British German born scientist who succeeded in giving American and British atomic bomb secrets to Russia and thereby changed world history during the 1950s , was sentenced to 14 years in prison .
He promptly went to communist East Germany .
The magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in American and British currency , mostly $20 bills , and in British government bonds and stocks .
`` This is Russian money '' , said Mervin Griffith-Jones for the attorney general's office .
He asserted that the Krogers were the bankers for Moscow , Lonsdale the Red paymaster , and the two civil servants the recipients for selling their country's secrets .
The fact that secrets of the Dreadnought , and thereby of the American undersea fleet , were involved in the spy case had been hinted at earlier .
But just before luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the British navy's chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare , Capt. George Symonds .
He said that drawings of the Dreadnought and printed details about the ship were found reproduced in an undeveloped roll of film taken from Lonsdale when he was arrested with the two civil servants outside the Old Vic theater Saturday afternoon , Jan. 7 .
Almost any information about the Dreadnought would also reveal secrets about the American underwater fleet .
Britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the American government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with Britain that had been imposed after Fuchs blabbed .
The United States offered to supply a complete set of propelling equipment like that used in the Skipjack .
The Skipjack was a second generation atomic sub , much advanced on the Nautilus and the other four which preceded it .
`` Much of the navy's future depends upon her '' , an American naval announcement said on the Skipjack's first arrival in British waters in August , 1959 , for exhibition to selected high officers at Portland underwater research station .
The atom reactor , water cooled , was the result of almost a decade of research at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and Westinghouse Electric Corp. .
The navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found in Miss Gee's purse would , if completed and handed back , have given the Kremlin a complete picture `` of our current anti-submarine effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development for the future '' .
Six radiomen told how , twice on two days after the ring was nabbed , a transmitter near Moscow was heard calling , using signals , times and wavelengths specified on codes found hidden in cigaret lighters in Lonsdale's apartment and the Krogers' house and also fastened to the transmitter lid .
The charge that the federal indictment of three Chicago narcotics detail detectives `` is the product of rumor , combined with malice , and individual enmity '' on the part of the federal narcotics unit here was made yesterday in their conspiracy trial before Judge Joseph Sam Perry in federal District court .
The three -- Miles J. Cooperman , Sheldon Teller , and Richard Austin -- and eight other defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate federal narcotic laws .
In his opening statement to a jury of eight women and four men , Bernard H. Sokol , attorney for the detectives , said that evidence would show that his clients were `` entirely innocent '' .
`` When they became members of the city police narcotics unit '' , Sokol said , `` they were told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in the narcotics racket .
`` In the same five year period that the United States says they ( the detectives ) were engaged in this conspiracy '' , Sokol continued , `` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations , and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the mayor's medal '' .
In opening , D. Arthur Connelly , assistant United States attorney , read the indictment , but made no comments .
Cooperman and Teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin to a convicted narcotics peddler , Otis Sears , 45 , of 6934 Indiana Av. .
Among other acts , Teller and Austin are accused of paying $800 to Sears .
The first witness , Moses Winston Mardis , 5835 Michigan Av. , a real estate agent and former bail bondsman , took the stand after opening statements had been made .
But court adjourned after he testified he introduced James White and Jeremiah Hope Pullings , two of the defendants , and also introduced Pullings to Jessy Maroy , a man mentioned in the indictment but not indicted .
Buaford Robinson , 23 , of 7026 Stewart Av. , a CTA bus driver , was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st Street and South Park Way .
Robinson told Policemen James Jones and Morgan Lloyd of the Wabash Avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south bound express bus in front of Dunbar Vocational High School , 30th Street and South Park Way , and began `` skylarking '' .
When 51st Street was reached , Robinson related , he stopped the bus and told the youths he was going to call the CTA supervisor .
Mrs. Blanche Dunkel , 60 , who has spent 25 years in the Dwight reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law , Ervin Lang , then 28 , appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before two Illinois pardon and parole board members , John M. Bookwalter and Joseph Carpentier .
She had been sentenced to 180 years in prison , but former Gov. Stratton commuted her term to 75 years , making her eligible for parole , as one of his last acts in office .
The son of a wealthy Evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an Evanston policeman on a high speed chase over icy Evanston and Wilmette streets Jan. 20 .
The defendant , William L. Stickney 3 , 23 , of 3211 Park pl. , Evanston , who pleaded guilty to reckless driving , also was ordered by Judge James Corcoran to attend the Evanston traffic school each Tuesday night for one month .
Stickney is a salesman for Plee-Zing , Inc. , 2544 Green Bay Rd. , Evanston , a food brokerage and grocery chain firm , of which his father , William L. Jr. , is president .
Patrolman James F. Simms said he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart Avenue at Central Street .
At Jenks Street , Simms said , the car skidded completely around , just missed two parked cars , and sped east in Jenks .
The car spun around again , Simms said , before Stickney could turn north in Prairie Avenue , and then violated two stop lights as he traveled north into Wilmette in Prairie .
St. Johns , Mich. , April 19 .
-- A jury of seven men and five women found 21-year-old Richard Pohl guilty of manslaughter yesterday in the bludgeon slaying of Mrs. Anna Hengesbach .
He returned to his cell in the county jail , where he has been held since his arrest last July , without a word to his court-appointed attorney , Jack Walker , or his guard .
The verdict brought vindication to the dead woman's stepson , Vincent Hengesbach , 54 , who was tried for the same crime in December , 1958 , and released when the jury failed to reach a verdict .
Mrs. Hengesbach was killed on Aug. 31 , 1958 .
Hengesbach has been living in Grand Ledge since his house and barn were burned down after his release in 1958 .
Pohl confessed the arson while being questioned about several fires in the Westphalia area by State Police .
He also admitted killing Mrs. Hengesbach .
Assistant Prosecutor Fred Lewis , who tried both the Hengesbach and Pohl cases , said he did not know what would be done about two arson charges pending against Pohl .
Circuit Judge Paul R. Cash did not set a date for sentencing .
The jury foreman , Mrs. Olive Heideman , of rural Elsie , said that a ballot was not even taken until yesterday morning and that the first day of deliberation was spent in going over the evidence .
The jury asked Judge Cash to send in his written definition of the difference between first and second-degree murder and manslaughter .
A Sterling Township family of six surviving children , whose mother died yesterday as the aftermath to a fire that also killed one of the children , found today they had the help of hundreds of neighbors and school friends .
While neighbor women assumed some of the dead mother's duties , fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners association and a student council for the hard-hit Henry Kowalski family , 34220 Viceroy .
Mrs. Eleanor Kowalski , 42 , died yesterday afternoon in Holy Cross Hospital of burns suffered in a fire that followed a bottled gas explosion Saturday night at the flat of her widowed mother , Mrs. Mary Pankowski , in the adjoining suburb of Warren .
Funeral services for Mrs. Kowalski and her daughter , Christine , 11 , who died of burns at the same hospital Monday , have been scheduled for 10 a.m. tomorrow in St. Anne's Catholic Church , 31978 Mound , in Warren .
The mother and daughter , who will be buried side by side in Mt. Olivet Cemetery , rested together today in closed caskets at the Lyle Elliott Funeral Home , 31730 Mound , Warren .
Mrs. Pankowski , 61 , remained in Holy Cross Hospital as a result of the explosion , which occurred while Mrs. Kowalski fueled a cook stove in the grandmother's small upstairs flat at 2274 Eight Mile Road East .
Assistant Fire Chief Chester Cornell said gas fumes apparently were ignited by a candle which one of the three Kowalski girls present held for her mother , because the flat lacked electricity .
Christine's twin sister , Patricia , and Darlene Kowalski , 8 , escaped with minor burns .
They are home now with the other Kowalski children , Vicky , 14 ; ;
`` All we have left in the world is one another , and we must stay together the way Mother wanted '' , Kowalski said in telling his children of their mother's death yesterday afternoon .
Neighbor women , such as Mrs. Sidney Baker , 2269 Serra , Sterling Township , have been supplying the family with meals and handling household chores with Kowalski's sister-in-law , Mrs. Anna Kowalski , 22111 David , East Detroit .
Another neighbor , Mrs. Frank C. Smith , 2731 Pall Mall , Sterling Township , surprised Kowalski by coming to the home yesterday with $135 collected locally toward the $400 funeral costs .
John C. Houghton , president of the Tareytown Acres Homeowners Association , followed that by announcing plans last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision on behalf of the Kowalski family .
Houghton said 6 p.m. Friday had been set for a canvass of all 480 homes in the subdivision , which is located northeast of Dequindre and 14 Mile Road East .
He said contributions also could be mailed to Post Office Box 553 , Warren Village Station .
Vicky Kowalski meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost $25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at Fuhrmann Junior High School , 5155 Fourteen Mile road east .
Principal Clayton W. Pohly said he would allow a further collection between classes today , and revealed that Y-Teen Club past surpluses had been used to provide a private hospital nurse Monday for Mrs. Kowalski .
Student Council officers announced today the Kowalski family would be given the combined proceeds from a school dance held two weeks ago , and another dance for Fuhrmann's 770 students this Friday night .
`` Furhmann's faculty is proud that this has been a spontaneous effort , started largely among the students themselves , because of fondness for Vicky and sympathy for her entire family , Pohly said .
There also were reports of a collection at the County Line Elementary School , 3505o Dequindre , which has been attended this year by four of the Kowalski children including Christine .
Patrolman George Kimmell , of McClellan Station , said he would recommend a special safety citation for Ralph Sisk , 9230 Vernor east , a third grader at the Scripps School , for his assistance in the case .
Kimmell said he and Ralph were helping children across Belvidere at Kercheval Monday afternoon when a car heading north on Belvidere stopped belatedly inside the pedestrian crosswalk .
The motorist later was identified as Richard Sarkees , 17 , of 2433 McClellan , currently on probation and under court order not to drive .
He was found guilty of reckless driving yesterday by Traffic Judge George T. Murphy , who continued his no-driving probation for another year and ordered him to spend 15 days in the Detroit House of Correction .
The jail sentence is to begin the day after Sarkees graduates from Eastern High School in June .
Britain announced that it is asking the Soviet Union to agree tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire .
In Vientiane , the royal Laotian government decided today to ask its `` friends and neighbors '' for help in fighting what it called a new rebel offensive threatening the southeast Asian kingdom .
Britain's plans to press Russia for a definite cease-fire timetable was announced in London by Foreign Secretary Lord Home .
He said Britain also proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened , sent to New Delhi and from there to Laos to verify the cease-fire .
A 14-power conference on Laos should then meet on May 5 , he said .
The Laos government plea for help was made by Foreign Minister Tiao Sopsaisana .
One of the first moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the United States to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the current civilian body .
A note making the request was handed to U.S. Ambassador Winthrop G. Brown .
The Laos government said four major Pathet Lao rebel attacks had been launched , heavily supported by troops from Communist North Viet Nam .
The minister , describing the attacks which led up to the appeal , said that 60,000 Communist North Vietnamese were fighting royal army troops on one front -- near Thakhek , in southern-central Laos .
-- Two Americans and seven Cubans were executed by firing squads today as Castro military tribunals began decreeing the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators .
A Havana radio broadcast identified the Americans as Howard Anderson and August Jack McNair .
The executions took place at dawn only a few hours after Havana radio announced their conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at Pinar Del Rio , where the executions took place .
The broadcast said Anderson , a Seattle ex-marine and Havana businessman , and McNair , of Miami , were condemned on charges of smuggling arms to Cuban rebels .
Anderson operated three Havana automobile service stations and was commander of the Havana American Legion post before it disbanded since the start of Fidel Castro's regime .
McNair , 25 , was seized March 20 with four Cubans and accused of trying to land a boatload of rifles in Pinar Del Rio , about 35 miles from Havana .
Among them were a number of newsmen , including Henry Raymont , of United Press International , and Robert Berrellez , of Associated Press .
So many Cubans were reported being swept into the Castro dragnet that the massive Sports Palace auditorium and at least one hotel were converted into makeshift jails .
More than 1,000 were said to have been arrested -- 100 of them Roman Catholic priests .
Of the millions who have served time in concentration camps in Siberia as political prisoners of the Soviet state , few emerge in the West to tell about it .
M. Kegham -- the name is a pseudynom -- was a teacher in Bucharest and a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation ( ARF ) -- two reasons the Communists put him away when they arrived in 1945 .
Today , M. Kegham was in Detroit , en route to join his wife and children in California .
Emory University's Board of Trustees announced Friday that it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's tax laws made such a step possible .
`` Emory University's charter and by-laws have never required admission or rejection of students on the basis of race '' , board chairman Henry L. Bowden stated .
But an official statement adopted by the 33-man Emory board at its annual meeting Friday noted that state taxing requirements at present are a roadblock to accepting Negroes .
The statement explained that under the Georgia Constitution and state law , tax-exempt status is granted to educational institutions only if they are segregated .
The Georgia Constitution gives the Legislature the power to exempt colleges from property taxation if , among other criteria , `` all endowments to institutions established for white people shall be limited to white people , and all endowments to institutions established for colored people shall be limited to colored people '' .
Emory is affiliated with the Methodist Church .
The student newspaper , The Emory Wheel , as early as the fall of 1954 called for desegregation .
`` From its beginning '' , the trustees' statement said Friday , `` Emory University has assumed as its primary commitment a dedication to excellence in Christian higher learning .
Teaching , research and study , according to highest standards , under Christian influence , are paramount in the Emory University policy .
`` As a private institution , supported by generous individuals , Emory University will recognize no obligation and will adopt no policy that would conflict with its purpose to promote excellence in scholarship and Christian education .
`` There is not now , nor has there ever been in Emory University's charter or by-laws any requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race , color or creed .
Insofar as its own governing documents are concerned , Emory University could now consider applications from prospective students , and others seeking applications from prospective students , and others seeking the opportunity to study or work at the university , irrespective of race , color or creed .
`` On the other hand , Emory University derives its corporate existence from the State of Georgia .
`` When and if it can do so without jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities , Emory University will consider applications of persons desiring to study or work at the University without regard to race , color or creed , continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of Christian higher education '' .
A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue near Waddell Street , NE , police said .
The dead youth was identified as Robert E. Sims , 19 , of 1688 Oak Knoll Cir. , Aj .
Patrolman G. E. Hammons said the car evidently slid out of control on rain-slick streets and slammed into the pole .
The other occupants were James Willard Olvey , 18 , of 963 Ponce De Leon Ave. , NE , and Larry Coleman Barnett , 19 , of 704 Hill St. , SE , both of whom were treated at Grady Hospital for severe lacerations and bruises .
The Atlanta Negro student movement renewed its demands for movie theater integration Friday and threatened picketing and `` stand-ins '' if negotiations failed .
The demands were set forth in letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the Committee on Appeal for Human Rights .
Downtown and art theater managers and owners , contacted Friday night for comment on the COAHR request , said they had no knowledge of such a letter , and that it was not in the Friday mail .
The COAHR letter comes on the eve of a large gathering of theater managers and owners scheduled to begin here Sunday .
Charles A. Black , COAHR chairman , said Friday that three theater representatives had agreed to meet with the students on Oct. 31 but had failed to show up .
A prepared statement released by the student group Friday stated that `` extensive research by COAHR into techniques and methods of theater integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines and stand-ins before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits ''
R. E. Killingsworth
Raymond E. Killingsworth , 72 , died Sunday at his home at 357 Venable St. , Aj .
Mr. Kililngsworth was a foreman with S and W Cafeteria .
He was born in Pittsboro , Miss. , and was a veteran of World War 1 .
Survivors include two brothers , C. E. Killingsworth , Atlanta , and John Killingsworth , Warren , Ohio ; ;
and two sisters , Miss Minnie Kililngsworth and Mrs. Bessie Bloom , both of Gettysburg , Pa. .
John W. Ball
John William Ball , 68 , of 133 Marietta St. NW , Apartment 101b , died Sunday at his home .
He was a member of the Oakland City Methodist Church and a native of Atlanta .
Funeral services will be at 2 p.m. Tuesday at Blanchard's Chapel with the Rev. J. H. Hearn officiating .
Survivors include his sister , Mrs. Emma B. Odom of Atlanta .
Mrs. Lola Harris
Mrs. Lola M. Harris , a native of Atlanta , died Sunday at her home in Garland , Tex. .
Survivors include a son , Charles R. Fergeson , Memphis , Tenn. ; ;
two daughters , Mrs. Gene F. Stoll and Miss Nancy Harris , both of Garland ; ;
her father , H. T. Simpson , Greenville , S.C. , and three sisters , Mrs. W. E. Little and Mrs. Hal B. Wansley , both of Atlanta , and Mrs. Bill Wallace , Wilmington , N.C. .
A 24-year-old Atlanta man was arrested Sunday after breaking into the home of relatives in search of his wife , hitting his uncle with a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him , police said .
Patrolmen J. W. Slate and A. L. Crawford Jr. said they arrested Ronald M. Thomas , of 1671 Nakoma St. , NW , after he assaulted the officers .
Thomas early Sunday went to the home of his uncle and aunt , Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Thomas , 511 Blanche St. , NW , looking for his wife , Margaret Lou Thomas , 18 , and their 11-month-old baby .
He was then subdued and placed in the police car to be taken to Grady Hospital for treatment of scratches received in the melee .
Mrs. Mary Self , who knows more than any other person about the 5,000 city employes for whom she has kept personnel records over the years , has closed her desk and retired .
Over the weekend , Mrs. Self , personnel clerk , was a feted and honored guest of the Atlanta Club , organization of women employes at City Hall .
One of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out to pay tribute to Mrs. Self and her service .
Georgia's Department of Agriculture is intensifying its fire ant eradication program in an effort to stay ahead of the fast-spreading pest .
The department is planning to expand its eradication program soon to four additional counties -- Troup , Pierce , Bryan and Bulloch -- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants , according to W. E. Blasingame state entomologist .
Low-flying planes will spread a granular-type chemical , heptachlor , over 30,000 acres in Troup , 37,000 acres in Pierce and 65,000 acres in Bulloch and Bryan counties .
The eradication effort is being pushed in Bibb and Jones counties , over 37,679 acres .
Also being treated are Houston , Bleckley , Tift , Turner and Dodge counties , Blasingame said .
The fire ant is thought to infest approximately two million acres of land in Georgia , attacking crops , young wildlife and livestock and can be a serious health menace to humans who are allergic to its venom , Blasingame said .
The north-bound entrance to the Expressway at 14th Street will be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week .
This is being done so that Georgia Tech can complete the final phase of a traffic survey on the North Expressway .
Incidentally , 14th Street and the Expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight hours .
It is followed by Cain Street and Piedmont Avenue , NE ; ;
the junction of the Northeast and Northwest Expressways and Jones Avenue and Marietta Street , Aj .
Four persons died in Georgia weekend traffic crashes , two of them in a fiery crash near Snellville , the State Patrol said Sunday .
The latest death reported was that of 4-year-old Claude Douglas Maynor of Calvary .
Troopers said the child ran into the path of a passing car a half-mile north of Calvary on Georgia 111 in Grady County .
That death occurred at 50 p.m. Friday and was reported Sunday , the patrol said .
Bobby Bester Hammett , 21 , of Rte. 3 , Lawrenceville , and Mrs. Lucille Herrington Jones , 23 , of Lawrenceville , died in the flaming car , the patrol said .
-- For a second month in a row , Multnomah County may be short of general assistance money in its budget to handle an unusually high summer month's need , the state public welfare commission was told Friday .
William Smythe , director of field service , told the commissioners that Multnomah , as of Aug. 22 , had spent $58,918 out of its budgeted $66,000 in the category , leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month .
The commission , meeting for the first time with both of its newly-appointed commissioners , Roy Webster , of Hood River , and Dr. Ennis Keizer , of North Bend , approved a year's contract for a consultant in the data processing department who has been the center of considerable controversy in the past .
The contract with Ray Field , who has been converting the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape , would renew his present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours a month .
Acting Administrator Andrew F. Juras said that because of Field's unique position and knowledge in the program , the agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not continued for a period .
Asked Mrs. Grace O. Peck , representative from Multnomah County , of the commission chairman , Joseph E. Harvey Jr. .
Mrs. Peck , later joined by the commission's vice-chairman , Mrs. Lee Patterson , took Harvey to task for comments he had made to the North Portland Rotary Club Tuesday .
A publicity release from Oregon Physicians Service , of which Harvey is president , quoted him as saying the welfare office move to Salem , instead of `` crippling '' the agency , had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses , with the key being improved communications between F & A and the commission staff .
The wife of convicted bank robber Lawrence G. Huntley was arrested in Phoenix , Ariz. , last week and will be returned to Portland to face charges of assault and robbery , Portland detectives said Friday .
Mrs. Lavaughn Huntley is accused of driving the getaway car used in a robbery of the Woodyard Bros.' Grocery , 2825 E. Burnside St. , in April of 1959 .
Her husband , who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at McNeil Island last April for robbery of the Hillsdale branch of Multnomah Bank , also was charged with the store holdup .
Secret Grand Jury indictments were returned against the pair last week , Detective Murray Logan reported .
The Phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's investigation by Detective William Taylor and other officers .
Taylor said Mrs. Huntley and her husband also will be questioned about a series of 15 Portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the holdup men bound their victims with tape before fleeing .
Mrs. Huntley was held on $20,000 bond in Phoenix .
She was arrested by Phoenix Police after they received the indictment papers from Portland detectives .
A 12-year-old girl , Susan Elaine Smith , 9329 NE Schuyler St. was in serious condition Friday at Bess Kaiser Hospital , victim of a bicycle-auto collision in the Gateway Shopping Center , parking area , Deputy Sheriff W. H. Forsyth reported .
Funeral for William Joseph Brett , 1926 NE 50th Ave. , who died Thursday in Portland , will be Monday 1 p.m. at the Riverview Abbey .
Mr. Brett , born in Brooklyn , N.Y. , Dec. 15 , 1886 , came to Portland in 1920 .
He owned a logging equipment business here from 1923 to 1928 , and later became Northwest district manager for Macwhyte Co. .
a son , William , Seattle , Wash. ; ;
three sisters , Mrs. Eugene Horstman , Los Angeles , Mrs. Lucy Brett Andrew , New York City , and Mrs. Beatrice Kiefferm , New York City , and five grandchildren .
Employes of Montgomery Ward & Co. at The Dalles , in a National Labor Relations Board election Thursday voted to decertify Local 1565 , Retail Clerks International Association , AFL-CIO , as their collective bargaining agent .
Monte Brooks , 67 , theatrical producer and band leader , collapsed and died Thursday in a Lloyd Center restaurant .
He lived at 6124 N. Willamette Blvd. .
These included Oregon State Fair , for which he had been booked on and off , for 30 years .
He collaborated with many of the big name entertainers visiting Portland , among the most recent being Jimmy Durante and Phil Silvers .
He had conducted the 20-piece band in a series of concerts at Blue Lake park during the summer months .
Mr. Brooks was born in New York , and came to Portland in 1920 .
He was a member of Harmony lodge , No. 12 , AF & AM , Scottish Rite ; ;
Al Kader Temple of the Shrine ; ;
Order of Elks , Lodge No. 142 ; ;
40 & 8 Voiture , No. 25 , Musician's Union , Local 99 .
He was a former commander of Willamette Heights , Post , and a member of Nevah Sholom Congregation .
a daughter , Mrs. Sidney S. Stein Jr. , Dorenzo , Calif. ; ;
a sister , Mrs. Birdie Gevurtz ; ;
two brothers , Charley and Aaron Cohn , San Francisco ; ;
Services will be at 30 p.m. Monday at Holman & Son Funeral Home , with interment in Neveh Zebek cemetery .
A 16-year-old Portland businessman and his Junior Achievement company , have been judged the `` Company of the Year '' in national competition completed this week at Ohio State University , Columbus , Ohio .
Tim Larson , a junior at Wilson High School and president of Spice-Nice , is the young executive who guided his firm to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement companies in the United States and Canada .
The award is the first such honor in the 11-year history of JA activities in Portland , according to Ralph Scolatti , local executive director for Junior Achievement .
Spice-Nice , counseled by Georgia-Pacific Corp. , had previously taken first-place honors in both local competition and the regional conference at San Francisco .
The Junior Achievement program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business by allowing them actually to form small companies , under the guidance and sponsorship of business firms .
Over 400 Portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance of Junior Achievement headquarters here .
For winning Larson will receive a $100 U.S. Savings Bond from the Junior Achievement national organization .
Advisors for the `` national champion '' company were John K. Morgan , William H. Baker , Leonard Breuer and William F. Stephenson , all of Georgia-Pacific Corp. .
Young Larson is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Larson , 5847 SW Nevada Ct. , Portland .
Other members of the Portland delegation attending the conference in Columbus are : Kathleen Mason , Jefferson high school ; ;
Phil Reifenrath , Madison high school ; ;
Ann Wegener , Madison ; ;
Richard E. Cohn , Grant ; ;
Karen Kolb , Franklin ; ;
and Shelby Carlson , Cleveland .
-- Washington County's 36th annual fair will close Saturday evening with 4-H and FFA awards program at 7 , public dance at 8 and variety show at 8:30 .
Exhibition ballroom dancers from the studio of Helen Wick Walters of Hillsboro won the all-county talent contest .
Bill Davis quartet of Hillsboro was second and baton twirler Sue Ann Nuttall of Reedville third .
Janet Jossy of North Plains won grand champion honors of the 4-H sheep showman contest .
Blue ribbons went to Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro , Larry Hinton of Beaverton .
Joan Zurcher of Hillsboro , Phyllis Jossy of North Plains , Jane Cox of North Plains .
Kathy Jossy of Hillsboro , Carol Jossy of North Plains and Lorlyn and Tom Zurcher of Hillsboro .
Tom Day of Beaverton exhibited the grand champion 4-H market hog , a Chester White .
Also winning blue ribbons were Bob Day of Beaverton , Tony Traxel of Beaverton and Steve Hutchins of Banks .
Swine showmanship championship went to Bob Day , with Tom Day and Hutchins winning other blues .
Charles Reynolds of Pumpkin Ridge was rabbit showmanship champion .
In poultry judging , blues were won by John Nyberg of Tualatin , Anne Batchelder of Hillsboro , Jim Shaw of Hillsboro , Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro and Lynn Robinson of Tigard .
In open class poultry , Donald Wacklin of Sherwood had the champion male and female bird and grand champion bird .
John Haase & Son of Corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all championships .
Carol Strong , 13 , of Cedar Mill cooked the championship junior dollar dinner .
Millie Jansen , high school senior from Verboort , had the championship dollar dinner , and Jody Jaross of Hillsboro also won a blue ribbon .
Barbara Borland of Tigard took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration called filbert hats .
About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board of tax assessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the last two days at the town hall in Centredale .
Louis H. Grenier , clerk of the board , said that the appeals will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new construction sites in the town for assessment purposes .
Any adjustments which are made , Mr. Grenier said earlier this month , will appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year .
John Pezza , 69 , of 734 Hartford Avenue , Providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio , 25 , of 12 DeSoto St. , Providence , on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in Johnston yesterday .
Mr. Giorgio had started to turn left off Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck by the Pezza car , police said .
Mr. Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician , Dr. Allan A. DiSimone , who treated him .
Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs , jewels , foreign coins and American dollars .
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills Drive at about 6 last night .
a collection of English , French and German coins , valued at $500 ; ;
Patrolman Robert J. Nunes , who investigated , said the thieves broke in through the back door .
The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River .
The division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy Street and tide conditions .
A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by Brown University from Lawrence J. Sullivan , according to a deed filed Monday at City Hall .
F. Morris Cochran , university vice president and business manager , said the house has been bought to provide rental housing for faculty families , particularly for those here for a limited time .
Thomas Rotelli , head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service , Inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers .
Sydney Larson , a staff representative for the United Steel Workers , which the firm's 25 workers joined before striking , said the state Labor Relations Board has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent .
A 62-year-old Smithfield man , Lester E. Stone of 19 Beverly Circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of Fatima Hospital , North Providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue in North Providence near Stevens Street .
He was taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance .
Before hitting the pole , Mr. Stone's car brushed against a car driven by Alva W. Vernava , 21 , of 23 Maple Ave. , North Providence , tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of the Vernava car , police said .
One house was without power for about half an hour , a Narragansett Electric Co. spokesman said .
The power was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p.m. when the accident occurred .
The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme Court , it appeared last night .
Two members of the Democratic-endorsed majority on the school board said they probably would vote to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education , which said yesterday that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of the coordinator , Francis P. Nolan 3rd , the Democratic-endorsed committee chairman , could not be reached for comment .
In its ruling , the state Board of Education upheld Dr. Michael F. Walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F. Tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable .
Supt. Clarence S. Taylor had recommended Roger I. Vermeersch for the post .
Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave. , Providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95 .
The award was made by Judge Fred B. Perkins who heard their petition without a jury by agreement of the parties .
Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent appeared for the state .
Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from Cranston residents .
Persons who find it convenient may send their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office at 823 Park Avenue .
Public school children have adopted the fund as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies , nickels , dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's goal .
Bernard Parrillo , 20 , of 19 Fletcher Ave. , Cranston , was admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a.m. yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying discharged against his heel .
Mr. Parrillo was given first aid at Johnston Hose 1 .
The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town and Mr. Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground .
A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , Oliver G. Pratt , yesterday by Governor Notte .
The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital , part of Rhode Island Hospital .
Vincent Sorrentino , founder and board chairman of the Uncas Mfg. Co. , has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy .
The decoration will be presented by A. Trichieri , Italian consul general in Boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on Dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary .
About 500 employes of the firm will be on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr. Sorrentino .
Mr. Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore .
On Sept. 6 , the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship .
In August while stopping in Greenock , Scotland , three members of the crew on liberty rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train .
Birmingham , Ala. -- ( AP )
-- The FBI yesterday arrested on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach a verdict in the `` Freedom Rider '' bus burning trial four weeks ago .
U.S. Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint , charged that the juror gave false information when asked about Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury .
He identified the man as Lewis Martin Parker , 59 , a farmer of Hartselle , Ala. .
Eight men were tried together in U.S. District Court in Anniston , Ala. , on charges of interfering with interstate transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders .
The arrest of Mr. Parker marks the third charge of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case .
The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts .
At the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by Mr. Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections .
One member of the panel -- not Mr. Parker -- indicated he had been a member of the KKK at one time .
The perjury charge against Mr. Parker carries a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction .
New York -- ( UPI )
-- The New York University Board of Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history of NYU , it was announced yesterday .
The new president is 37-year-old Dr. James McN. Hester , currently dean of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences .
Dr. Hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major American university , succeeds Dr. Carroll V. Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc. publishing firm .
Dr. Hester , of Princeton , N.J. , is a native of Chester , Pa. He joined NYU in September , 1960 .
Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University in Brooklyn .
Vast spraying programs conducted by `` technicians with narrow training and little wisdom '' are endangering crops and wildlife , Carl W. Buchheister , president of the National Audubon Society , said today .
Buchheister told delegates to the West Coast Audubon Convention that aerial spraying in Louisiana failed to destroy its target , the fire ant .
The conservation leader said other mistakes in spraying had caused serious damage in Ohio and Wyoming .
There have even been serious errors in the U. S. Forest Service , whose officials pride themselves in their scientific training , he added .
In addition to urging greater restrictions on aerial spraying , Buchheister called for support of the Wilderness bill , creation of national seashore parks , including Point Reyes ; ;
The Reed Rogers Da Fonta Wild Life Sanctuary in Marin county on Friday officially became the property of the National Audubon Society .
Mrs. Norman Livermore , president of the Marin Conservation League , handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands tract south of Greenwood Beach to Carl W. Buchheister , president of the Society .
The presentation was made before several hundred persons at the annual meeting of the League at Olney Hall , College of Marin , Kentfield .
Seventeen years ago today , German scientist Willy Fiedler climbed into a makeshift cockpit installed in a V-1 rocket-bomb that was attached to the underbelly of a Heinkel bomber .
The World War 2 , German bomber rolled down a runway and took off .
Now a quiet-spoken , middle-aged man , Fiedler is an aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division at Sunnyvale , where he played a key role in the development of the Navy's Polaris missile .
Fiedler was then technical director of Hitler's super-secret `` Reichenberg project '' , which remained unknown to the Allies until after the war .
The target was Allied shipping -- a desperate effort to stave off the Allied invasion of Europe .
At 12,000 feet , Fiedler signaled `` release '' , and started the roaring pulse-jet engine -- then streaked away from beneath the Heinkel .
Fiedler went on to make several other test flights before German pilots took over the Reichenberg missiles .
Now a family man with three children , Fiedler lives in a quiet residential area near the Lockheed plant at Sunnyvale .
John Di Massimo has been elected president of the 1961 Columbus Day Celebration Committee , it was announced yesterday .
Other officers are Angelo J. Scampini , vice president , Joseph V. Arata , treasurer , and Fred J. Casassa , secretary .
Judge John B. Molinari was named chairman of the executive committee .
Elios P. Anderlini , Attilio Beronio , Leo M. Bianco , Frederic Campagnoli , Joseph Cervetto , Armond J. De Martini , Grace Duhagon , John P. Figone , John P. Figone Jr. , Stephen Mana , John Moscone , Calude Perasso , Angelo Petrini , Frank Ratto , and George R. Reilly .
Dr. Albert Schweitzer , world-famous theologian and medical missionary , has endorsed an Easter March for Disarmament which begins tomorrow in Sunnyvale .
Members of the San Francisco American Friends Service , a Quaker organization , will march to San Francisco for a rally in Union Square at 2 p.m. Saturday .
In a letter to the American Friends Service , Dr. Schweitzer wrote :
`` Leading Nations of the West and of the East keep busy making newer nuclear weapons to defend themselves in the event the constantly threatening nuclear war should break out .
A federal grand jury called 10 witnesses yesterday in an investigation of the affairs of Ben Stein , 47 , who collected big fees as a `` labor consultant '' and operator of a janitors' service .
Before he testified for 20 minutes , Stein , who lives at 3300 Lake Shore Dr. , admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with crime syndicate hoodlums .
Among his gangland buddies , he said , were Joseph ( Joey ) Glimco , a mob labor racketeer , and four gang gambling chiefs , Gus ( Slim ) Alex , Ralph Pierce , Joe ( Caesar ) DiVarco , and Jimmy ( Monk ) Allegretti .
Another hoodlum , Louis Arger , drew $39,000 from Stein's janitor firm , the National Maintenance company , in three years ending in 1959 , Stein disclosed in an interview .
`` I put Arger on the payroll because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy pier '' , Stein said .
`` But Arger never was able to produce it , so I cut him off my payroll '' .
Other witnesses , after appearances before the jury , which reportedly is probing into possible income tax violations , disclosed that government prosecutors were attempting to connect Stein and his company with a number of gangsters , including Glimco and Alex .
Under scrutiny , two of the witnesses said , were payments and loans to Stein's National Maintenance company at 543 Madison St. .
The company supplies janitors and workmen for McCormick Place and factories , liquor firms , and other businesses .
Among the witnesses were Ed J. Lee , director of McCormick Place ; ;
Jerome Leavitt , a partner in the Union Liquor company , 3247 S. Kedzie Av. , Dominic Senese , a teamster union slugger who is a buddy of Stein and a cousin of Tony Accardo , onetime gang chief ; ;
and Frank W. Pesce , operator of a Glimco dominated deodorant firm , the Best Sanitation and Supply company , 1215 Blue Island Av. .
Lee said he had told the jury that he made an agreement in April with Stein to supply and supervise janitors in McCormick Place .
Leavitt , as he entered the jury room , said he was prepared to answer questions about the $12,500 his liquor firm paid to Stein for `` labor consultant work '' with five unions which organized Leavitt's workers .
Government attorneys , Leavitt said , have questioned him closely about `` five or six loans '' totaling about $40,000 which the liquor company made to Stein in the last year .
All of the loans , in amounts up to $5,000 each , have been repaid by Stein , according to Leavitt .
Stein said he needed the money , Leavitt said , to `` meet the payroll '' at National Maintenance company .
The deodorant firm run by Pesce has offices in the headquarters of Glimco's discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 Blue Island Av. .
The radiation station of the Chicago board of health recorded a reading of 1 micro-microcurie of radiation per cubic meter of air over Chicago yesterday .
The reading , which has been watched with interest since Russia's detonation of a super bomb Monday , was 4 on Tuesday and 7 last Saturday , a level far below the danger point , according to the board of health .
Curtis Allen Huff , 41 , of 1630 Lake Av. , Wilmette , was arrested yesterday on a suppressed federal warrant charging him with embezzling an undetermined amount of money from the First Federal Savings and Loan association , 1 S. Dearborn St. , where he formerly was employed as an attorney .
Huff's attorney , Antone F. Gregorio , quoted his client as saying that part of the embezzlement represented money paid to Huff , as attorney for the loan association , in satisfaction of mechanic's liens on property on which the association held mortgages .
Huff , who received a salary of $109 a week from the loan association from October of 1955 until September of this year , said that his private practice was not lucrative .
The complaint on which the warrant was issued was filed by Leo Blaber , an attorney for the association .
The shortage was discovered after Huff failed to report for work on Sept. 18 .
On that date , according to Gregorio , Huff left his home and took a room in the New Lawrence hotel at 1020 Lawrence Av. .
There , Gregorio said , Huff wrote a complete statement of his offense .
Later , Huff cashed three checks for $100 each at the Sherman House , using a credit card .
When Huff attempted to cash another $100 check there Monday , hotel officials called police .
Bonn , Oct. 24 ( UPI )
-- Greece and West Germany have ratified an agreement under which Germany will pay $28,700,000 to Greek victims of Nazi persecution , it was announced today .
Probably the hottest thing that has hit the Dallas investment community in years was the Morton Foods stock issue , which was sold to the public during the past week .
The first over-the-counter trade Wednesday afternoon at Eppler , Guerin & Turner , the managing underwriter , was at $17 a share .
But the Morton Foods issue was hot long before it was on the market .
Indeed , from the moment the reports of the coming issue first started circulating in Dallas last January , the inquiries and demand for the stock started building up .
Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the nation , all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would be sold ( 185,000 to the public at $12.50 , with another 5,000 reserved for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share ) .
There was even a cable in French from a bank in Switzerland that had somehow learned about the Dallas stock offering .
`` We subscribe 500 shares of Morton Foods of Texas .
But the result of it all was , E.G.T. partner Dean Guerin believes , an effective distribution of the stock to owners all over the nation .
He was also pleased with the wide distribution because he thought it proved again his argument that Dallas investment men can do just as good a job as the big New York investment bankers claim only they can do .
But what made the Morton Foods stock issue such a hot one ? ?
Second , the `` potato chip industry '' has caught the fancy of investors lately , and until Morton Foods came along there were only two potato chip stocks -- Frito and H. W. Lay -- on the market .
Both of those have had dynamic run-ups in price on the market in recent months , both were selling at higher price-earnings and yield bases than Morton was coming to market at , and everyone who knew anything about it expected the Morton stock to have a fast run-up .
All those things combined to make the Morton Foods stock the hot issue that it was and is .
Now , if Morton's newest product , a corn chip known as Chip-o's , turns out to sell as well as its stock did , the stock may turn out to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up to .
Dallas and North Texas is known world-wide as the manufacturing and distribution center of cotton gin machinery and supplies , valued in the millions of dollars .
More than 10 companies maintain facilities in Dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at Sherman .
It is no coincidence that the Texas Cotton Ginner's Association is meeting here this week for the 46th time in their 52-year history .
The exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at the State Fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars .
The Murray Co. of Texas , Inc. , originated in Dallas in 1896 .
The Continental Gin Co. began operations in Dallas in 1899 .
Headquarters is in Birmingham , Ala. .
Factories are located here and in Prattville , Ala. .
Hardwicke-Etter Co. of Sherman makes a full line of gin machinery and equipment .
The firm recently expanded domestic sales into the Southeastern states as a result of an agreement with Cen-Tennial Gin Co. .
The Lummus Cotton Gin Co. has had a sales and service office in Dallas since 1912 .
Factory operations are in Columbus , Ga. .
The Moss Gordin Lint Cleaner Co. and Gordin Unit System of Ginning have joint headquarters here .
The John E. Mitchell Co. began work in Dallas in 1928 .
The Hinckley Gin Supply Co. is a maker of `` overhead equipment '' .
The firm began operations back in 1925 and sells equipment in the central cotton belt , including the Mississippi Delta .
The Cen-Tennial Gin Supply Co. has home offices and factory facilities here .
The Stacy Co. makes cleaning and drying equipment for sale largely in Texas .
Cotton Belt Gin Service , Inc. of Dallas makes gin saws and started here 14 years ago .
New car sales in Dallas County during March showed slight signs of recovering from the doldrums which have characterized sales this year .
Registrations of new cars in Dallas County cracked the 3,000 mark in March for the first time this year .
However , compared with March 1960 new car sales of 4,441 , this March was off 23 per cent .
This year-to-year decline for Dallas County closely follows the national trend -- estimated sales of domestic cars in the U.S. for first three months of 1961 were about 1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier .
With the March pickup , dealers are optimistic that the April-June quarter will equal or top last year .
Only three standard models -- Buick , Chrysler , and Mercury -- had slight year-to-year gains in March sales in the county .
The top 3 students from 11 participating Dallas County high schools will be honored by the Dallas Sales Executives Club at a banquet at 6 p.m. Tuesday in the Sam Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel as the club winds up its annual Distributive Education project .
Principal address will be delivered by Gerald T. Owens , national sales manager for Isodine Pharmical Corp. of New York .
The 33 honored students are : Mike Trigg , Raymond Arrington , and Ronald Kaminsky of Bryan Adams , Janice Whitney , Fil Terral , and Carl David Page of W. H. Adamson ; ;
Bill Burke , Tommie Freeman , and Lawrence Paschall of N. R. Crozier Tech. Paulah Thompson , Gerald Kestner , and Nancy Stephenson of Hillcrest ; ;
Arnold Hayes , Mary Ann Shay , and Lloyd Satterfield of Thomas Jefferson ; ;
William Cluck , Deloris Carrel Carty , and Edna Earl Eaton of North Dallas ; ;
Patricia Ann Neal , Johnny Carruthers , and David McLauchlin of Rylie of Seagoville ; ;
David Wolverton , Sharon Flanagan , and James Weaver of W. W. Samuels ; ;
William Austin , Gary Hammond , and Ronnie Davis of South Oak Cliff ; ;
Bill Eaton , Carolyn Milton , and Ronnie Bert Stone of Sunset ; ;
and Charles Potter , Ronnie Moore , and Robert Bailey of Woodrow Wilson .
The Kennedy administration's new housing and urban renewal proposals , particularly their effect on the Federal Housing Administration , came under fire in Dallas last week .
The Administration's proposals , complex and sweeping as they are , all deal with fringe areas of the housing market rather than its core , stated Caron S. Stallard , first vice-president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America .
-- `` The present recovery movement will gather steady momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn '' , Beryl W. Sprinkel , economist of Harris Trust & Savings Bank , Chicago , predicted at the closing session here Tuesday of Investment Bankers Assn. , California group , conference .
Another speaker , William H. Draper , Jr. , former Under Secretary of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper , Gaither & Anderson , urged the U.S. to `` throw down the gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we won't be pushed around any more '' .
He urged support for President Kennedy's requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations .
The economist does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery and believes it `` even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn as was the case in 1958 '' .
Draper declared , `` As I see it , this country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today .
He said that from his experience of two years with Gen. Clay in West Berlin administration , that `` Russia respects our show of strength , but that presently we're not acting as we should and must '' .
New York ( AP )
-- Stock market Tuesday staged a technical recovery , erasing all of Monday's losses in the Associated Press average and making the largest gain in about two weeks .
Analysts saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for `` support level '' represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial average .
Although it looked like a routine technical snapback to Wall Streeters it was accompanied by some good news .
Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next year , paving the way for lower taxes .
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 7.19 to 687.87 .
A $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G. Peterson , head of one of the world's greatest camera firms , in a key address before the American Marketing Assn. .
However , Peterson , president of Bell & Howell , warned 800 U.S. marketing leaders attending a national conference at the Ambassador , that the future will belong to the industrialist of creative and `` unconventional wisdom '' .
He cited , as an example , how the American camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition of Japan despite lower Japanese labor costs , by improving its production know-how and technology .
He also used as an example the manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany , with the result that it became the best selling camera in the German market .
Election of Howard L. Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast Stock Exchange , effective Tuesday , has been announced by Thomas P. Phelan , president of the exchange .
Taylor , president and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co. , Beverly Hills , has been active in the securities business since 1925 .
Union Oil Co. of California Tuesday offered $120 million in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by Dillon , Read & Co. , to raise money to retire a similar amount held by Gulf Oil Corp. .
Gulf's holdings could have been converted into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of debentures plus cash , according to Union .
The new offering Tuesday consisted of $60 million worth of 4-7/8 debentures , due June 1 , 1986 , at 100% , and $60 million of 4-1/2% convertible subordinated debentures due June 1 , 1991 , at 100% .
New York ( AP )
-- American Stock Exchange prices enjoyed a fairly solid rise but here also trading dwindled .
Gains of 2-3/4 were posted for Teleprompter and Republic Foil .
Fairchild Camera and Kawecki Chemical gained 2-1/2 each .
-- I bought 50 shares of Diversified Growth Stock Fund on Oct. 23 , 1959 , and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on Feb. 8 , 1960 .
In other words , I am getting only half the dividends I should .
-- Write to the fund's custodian bank -- the First National Bank of Jersey City , N.J. .
That bank handles most of the paper work for Diversified Growth Stock Fund , Fundamental Investors , Diversified Investment Fund and Television-Electronics Fund .
-- Alfred Hayes , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said Tuesday `` there is no present need for far-reaching reforms '' which would basically alter the international financial system .
-- New York Central Railroad president Alfred E. Perlman said Tuesday his line would face the threat of bankruptcy if the Chesapeake & Ohio and Baltimore & Ohio Railroads merge .
The railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the C & O's request to control and then merge with the B & Aj .
Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. , testified the B & O was in its worst financial condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad .
`` The financial situation of the Baltimore & Ohio , has become precarious -- much worse than at any time since the depression of the 1930s '' , he told the hearing .
C & O president Walter J. Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing the complex case .
The New York Central also has asked the ICC to permit it to gain control of the B & Aj .
The proposed C & O-B & O railroad would make it the hemisphere's second largest .
-- The government's short-term borrowing costs rose with Tuesday's weekly offering of Treasury bills .
Washington , March 11 ( UPI ) .
This was the chief reason for a so-so sales outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National Housing Center .
The reason , says the Housing Center , is that the builders invited to the intentions conference `` are generally among the more successful businessmen , and usually do somewhat better than their fellow builders '' .
-- Farm machinery dealer Bob Houtz tilts back in a battered chair and tells of a sharp pickup in sales : `` We've sold four corn pickers since Labor Day and have good prospects for 10 more .
Gus Ehlers , competitor of Mr. Houtz in this farm community , says his business since August 1 is running 50% above a year earlier .
`` In August our dealers sold 13% more farm machinery than a year earlier and in September retail sales were 14% higher than last year '' , says Mark V. Keeler , farm equipment vice president of International Harvester Co. .
`` Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says Jack Martin , who sells J. I. Case tractors and implements in Sioux City , Iowa .
Mr. Martin sold 21 tractors in August ; ;
For example , farm equipment shipments of International Harvester in August climbed about 5% above a year earlier , Mr. Keeler reports .
Tractor production at Massey-Ferguson , Ltd. , of Toronto in July and August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier , says John Staiger , vice president .
Merritt D. Hill , Ford Motor Co. vice president , says his company is starting to get calls daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping dates on orders for corn pickers .
Agriculture Department economists estimate the Government this year will hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments , well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639 million of 1960 .
Kennedy opposes any widespread relief from a High Court depletion ruling .
The Supreme Court decision in mid-1960 was in the case of a company making sewer pipe from clay which it mined .
The High Court held that the company must apply its percentage allowance to the value of the raw materials removed from the ground , not to the revenue from finished products .
A realty corporation in Louisiana owed no tax , under Federal law , on its gain from the sale of property disposed of in line with a plan of liquidation .
The corporation , in filing its final Federal income return , claimed the state tax payment as a deductible expense , as permitted under U.S. tax law .
The Revenue Service disallowed the claim , invoking a law provision that generally bars deductions for expenses incurred in connection with what it said was tax-exempt income .
The Tax Court rejected this view .
The Tax Court decision and a similar earlier finding by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals challenges a year-old I.R.S. ruling on the subject .
The owner of a public relations firm owed no income tax on payments he received from a client company and `` kicked back '' to the company's advertising manager , the Tax Court ruled .
The Court limited its decision to the tax issue involved , commenting : `` It is not our province to pass judgment on the morality of the transaction '' .
The Revenue Service said the addition of the attachment does not keep the range from coming under the Federal manufacturers' excise tax on household-type appliances .
A spouse employed by a corporation her husband controls , for example , may be entitled to distributions under the company's pension plan as well as to her own Social Security coverage .
In that event , they note , the Revenue Service might declare the pension plan is discriminatory and deny it tax privileges under the law .
State briefs : Voters in four counties containing and bordering Denver authorized the imposition of an additional 2% sales tax within that area .
-- Consumer spending edged down in April after rising for two consecutive months , the Government reported .
The Commerce Department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped to slightly under $18 billion in April , down 1% from the March level of more than $18.2 billion .
April sales also were 5% below those of April last year , when volume reached a record for any month , $18.9 billion ( see chart on Page One ) .
The seasonal adjustment takes into account such factors as Easter was on April 2 this year , two weeks earlier than in 1960 , and pre-Easter buying was pushed into March .
Commerce Department officials were inclined to explain the April sales decline as a reaction from a surge of consumer buying in March .
As a Neiman-Marcus award winner the titian-haired Miss Garson is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion this season .
She will receive the 1961 `` Oscar '' at the 24th annual Neiman-Marcus Exposition , Tuesday and Wednesday in the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel .
The only woman recipient , Miss Garson will receive the award with Ferdinando Sarmi , creator of chic , beautiful women's fashions ; ;
Harry Rolnick , president of the Byer-Rolnick Hat Corporation and designer of men's hats ; ;
Sydney Wragge , creator of sophisticated casuals for women and Roger Vivier , designer of Christian Dior shoes Paris , France , whose squared toes and lowered heels have revolutionized the shoe industry .
The silver and ebony plaques will be presented at noon luncheons by Stanley Marcus , president of Neiman-Marcus , Beneficiary of the proceeds from the two showings will be the Dallas Society for Crippled Children Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center .
The attractive Greer Garson , who loves beautiful clothes and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles , prefers timeless classical designs .
In private life , Miss Garson is Mrs. E. E. Fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from Dallas , where they maintain an apartment , to their California home in Los Angeles' suburban Bel-Air to their ranch in Pecos , New Mexico .
A favorite is Norman Norell , however .
She also likes the femininity and charm of designs by Ceil Chapman and Helen Rose .
Of Scotch-Irish-Scandinavian descent , Greer Garson was born in County Down , Ireland .
Her mother was a Greer and her father's family came from the Orkney Isles .
Reared in England , she studied to be a teacher , earned several scholarships and was graduated with honors from the University of London .
She took postgraduate work at the University of Grenoble in France and then returned to London to work on market research with an advertising firm .
Her acting began with the Birmingham Repertory Company and she soon became the toast of the West End .
Among stage performances was a starring role in `` Golden Arrow '' directed by Noel Coward .
It was during `` Old Music '' at the St. James Theater that Hollywood's Louis B. Mayer spotted her .
After signing a motion-picture contract , she came to America and had `` Goodbye , Mr. Chips '' as her first assignment after a year's wait .
Other triumphs include `` Random Harvest '' , `` Madame Curie '' , `` Pride and Prejudice '' , `` The Forsythe Saga '' and `` Mrs. Miniver '' ( which won her the Academy Award in 1943 ) .
Honors that have come to Greer Garson are countless .
Just this April she was nominated for the seventh time for an Academy Award for her portrayal of Eleanor Roosevelt in `` Sunrise at Campobello '' .
She gave a fine portrayal of Auntie Mame on Broadway in 1958 and has appeared in live television from `` Captain Brassbound's Conversion '' to `` Camille '' .
She is in Madame Tussard's Waxworks in London , a princess of the Kiowa tribe and an honorary colonel in many states .
She is adept at skeet shooting , trout fishing , Afro-Cuban and Oriental dancing and Southwestern archaeology .
She now serves on the board of directors of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and the Dallas Theater Center and on the board of trustees of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts .
She is state chairman for the New Mexico Tuberculosis and Cancer Associations .
Both Miss Garson and her oilman-rancher husband are active supporters of Boys Clubs of America and patrons of the vivid art and opera colony that flourishes in New Mexico .
Back in college , today's handsome Gander was the only male member of a Texas Tech class on food .
Last October he gave a public speech in Washington , D.C. entitled `` Are Women Here To Stay '' ? ?
So you can see that Gerald G. Ramsey , director of SMU's food services , is not the ordinary type of craven , women-trodden chef .
And he operates three cafeterias in the Student Center , along with McElvaney Dining Hall and the athlete's tables .
Ramsey , 6-3 , 195 and ruggedly slim , says , `` I can't remember when I didn't pester my mother to teach me to cook '' .
He was in charge of the Hockaday School meals from 1946 to 1950 , before he moved to Aj .
Ramsey has stoked up Harry Truman , Henry Cabot Lodge , the King of Morocco , Clement Atlee and other shiny characters .
( Leave off the ham and you call it Chicken Pontiac , says Ramsey .
These two , Heritage and Drexel , chose too not to produce the exactly matching design for every piece , but a collection of correlated designs , each of which could stand alone .
The Heritage collection , to be shown by Sanger-Harris and Anderson's Studio , has perhaps more different types of woods and decorations than any one manufacturer ever assembled together at one time .
The Drexel collection , called Composite , to be shown by Titche's offers a realistic approach to decorating , a mature modern that is a variation of many designs .
Colorful , bright Eastman Chromspun fabrics , with the magenta , pink and white tones predominating as well as golden shades are used with Composite .
Design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite contemporary label keynote Drexel's fall 1961 group , Composite .
Dignity and comfort , in a contemporary manner , reflecting the best aspects of today's design , with substance and maturity , keynote the Perennian collection from Heritage .
Mellow bronzy-green-gold fabrics and the gleam of copper and hand-crafted ceramic accessories reiterate the mood as does the Alexander Smith carpet in all wool loop pile .
This coming weekend they have reserved the entire Stagecoach Inn and adjoining country club , Saledo , for festivities .
Invitations have been extended to some Austin dignitaries including Gov. and Mrs. Price Daniel .
Stagecoach Days is the theme for the weekend on the Old Chisholm Trail .
Guests will wear costumes typical of the Chisholm Trail Days .
Mr. and Mrs. Phil G. Abell are chairmen for the Saledo trip .
Committee members aiding them in planning the entertainment are Messrs and Mmes Roy McKee , George McElyee , Jack Fanning , W. H. Roquemore and Joe Darrow .
The travel club is comprised of 75 fun-loving couples who have as their motto `` Go Somewhere , Anywhere , Everywhere '' .
In the past , the men and women have chartered planes to Las Vegas and Jamaica , buses to Mineral Wells and Kerrville and private railway coaches to Shreveport and Galveston .
Serving on the club's board are Mmes R. P. Anderson , president ; ;
A. F. Schmalzried , secretary ; ;
W. H. Roquemore , treasurer , and the following chairmen : Mmes McKee , publicity ; ;
Lawrence B. Jones , yearbook , and Sam Laughlin , scrapbook .
A cookie with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000 for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off Tuesday .
Mrs. Alice H. Reese , wife of an engineer and mother of a 23-year-old son , was awarded the top prize at a luncheon in the Beverly Hilton Hotel .
Second grand prize of $5,000 went to Mrs. Clara L. Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee ring , a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze .
She lives in Wellsville , Mo. .
Mrs. Reese baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals .
The third time was on the floor of the Beverly Hilton ballroom and for the critical eyes and tongues of judges .
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Bolker will give a dinner on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs. Norman Chandler , chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee , and Mr. Chandler .
A feature of the party will be a presentation by Welton Becket , center architect , of color slides and renderings of the three-building complex .
Fall foliage and flowers will decorate Los Angeles Country Club for the annual formal party Saturday evening .
Among those with reservations are Messrs. and Mmes. William A. Thompson , Van Cott Niven , A. B. Cox , David Bricker , Samuel Perry and Robert D. Stetson .
Others are Drs. and Mmes. Alfred Robbins , and J. Lafe Ludwig and Gen. and Mrs. Leroy Watson .
Guests from across U.S. honor Dr. Swim
When Dr. W. A. Swim celebrated his 75th birthday at the Wilshire Country Club , guests came by chartered plane from all over the country .
A flight originating in Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points .
Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons who had known Dr. Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles .
He started practice in 1917 , and served on the State Board of Medical Examiners .
Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg , a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would have a promising career on the concert stage .
Now her modern tapestries have been exhibited on two continents and , at 26 , she feels she is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles .
Her days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband Stephen fled to Vienna .
`` No '' , I said , `` I didn't happen to grow up in Illinois '' .
The logic of that is impeccable , of course , except that I feel like a fool being driven up to work in a little car , by my wife , when everybody knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself .
Nobody walks anymore but crackpots and Harry Truman , and he's already got an education .
Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register which made news last week .
Published annually by William Hord Richardson , the 1962 edition , subtitled Society Register of Southern California , is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning's postman .
Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book `` but it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for those ever-changing telephone numbers , addresses , other residences , club affiliations and marriages '' .
Last two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of Meredith Jane Cooper , daughter of the Grant B. Coopers , to Robert Knox Worrell , and of Mary Alice Ghormley to Willard Pen Tudor .
Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler Jr. ; ;
Joanne Curry , daughter of the Ellsworth Currys , to James Hartley Gregg , and Valerie Smith to James McAlister Duque .
Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning , daughter of the George L. Brownings , to Austin C. Smith Jr. ; ;
Cynthia Flower , daughter of the Ludlow Flowers Jr. , to Todd Huntington , son of the David Huntingtons .
Listed as newly wed in the Pasadena section of the new book are Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Moody Haskins 3 .
She is the former Judy Chapman , daughter of John S. Chapman of this city .
Another marriage of note is that of Jane McAlester and William Louis Pfau .
For instance , the Edwin Pauleys Jr. , formerly of Chantilly Rd. , are now at home on North Arden Dr. in Beverly Hills .
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the Franklin Moultons on S. Windsor Blvd. .
The Richard Beesemyers , formerly of Connecticut , have returned to Southern California and are now residing on South Arden Blvd. .
But the Raoul Esnards have exchanged their residence in Southern California for Mexico City .
Judge and Mrs. Julian Hazard are now at Laguna Beach , while the Frank Wangemans have moved from Beverly Hills to New York , where he is general manager of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .
And Lawrence Chase , son of the Ransom Chases , is listed at his new address in Oxford , Eng. .
Others listed at new addresses are the Richard T. Olerichs , the Joseph Aderholds Jr. , the Henri De La Chapelles , the John Berteros and Dr. and Mrs. Egerton Crispin , the John Armisteads , the Allen Chases , the Howard Lockies , the Thomas Lockies , and Anthony Longinotti .
Newcomers of social note from other parts of the country are the Ray Carbones , formerly of Panama ; ;
the Geddes MacGregors , formerly of Scotland , and Mr. and Mrs. Werner H. Althaus , formerly of Switzerland .
Make sure that the metal tube through which the wire passes is in the shape of an inverted `` L '' , the foot of the `` L '' about three inches long , so that the puppet can hang directly under the light .
Today's trend toward furniture designs from America's past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era .
This isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's , according to decorator consultant , Leland Alden .
Housewives are finding literally hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs , says Mr. Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial craftsmen had `` an innate sense of the practical '' .
There are a number of reasons why the Eighteenth Century designer had to develop `` down to earth '' designs -- or go out of business .
Hotel Escape's Bonanza room has a real bonanza in its new attraction , the versatile `` Kings 4 , Plus Two '' .
Show spotlights the Kings -- George Worth , Bill Kay , Frank Ciciulla and Gene Wilson , flanked by Dave Grossman and Ron Stevens .
The Plus Two remain at a fixed position with drums and guitar but the quartet covers the stage with a batch of instruments ranging from tuba to tambourine , and the beat is solid .
Kings 4 , have rated as a popular act in Vegas and Western nightclubs .
Andy Bartha and his trio have booked into Oceania Lounge .
The Cumbancheros , Latin combo , open Tuesday at the Four O'Clock Club .
`` Flip '' Phillips for a return engagement at Fireside Steak Ranch Wednesday ; ;
same date , Johnny LaSalle trio to the Jolly Roger .
Dick Carroll and his accordion ( which we now refer to as `` Freida '' ) held over at Bahia Cabana where `` Sir '' Judson Smith brings in his calypso capers Oct. 13 .
Johnny Leighton picked up some new numbers out in Texas which he's springing on the ringsiders in the Rum House at Galt Ocean Mile Hotel .
`` Skip '' Hovarter back in town from a summer in the Reno-Lake Tahoe area where he ran into Rusty Warren , Kay Martin , the Marskmen and Tune Toppers -- all pulling good biz , he says .
Al Fike , an ex-schoolteacher from Colorado , is currently pursuing the three R's -- rhythm , reminiscence and repartee -- in a return class session at the Trade Winds Hotel .
Newcomers are Ernie Kemm on piano , Wes Robbins , bass and trumpet , and Jack Kelly on drums .
It's a solid show but , except for some interim keyboarding by Ernie , it's Al's all the way .
Latter domain , under the guidance of Chef Tom Yokel , will specialize in steaks , chops , chicken and prime beef as well as Tom's favorite dish , stuffed shrimp .
Bandstand features Hal DeCicco , pianist , for both dinner hour and the late trade .
Hubie's restaurant activities up in Lorain , Ohio , may preclude his return here until after Oct. 20 , date set for reopening the Heilman Restaurant on Sunman Restaurant on Sunrise .
Louise Franklin cornering the gift shop market in Lauderdale .
Vivacious redhead debuts another shop , her sixth , in the Governor's Club Hotel this week .
Sunday New Orleans brunches continue at the Trade Winds but the daily French buffets have been called off .
Mackey Airline's new Sunshine Inn at Bimini set to open some time this month , according to Hank Johnson .
Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic Blvd. plotting a month-long `` festival '' throughout October , with special features .
Don Drinkhouse of Pal's Restaurant planning a reunion with the Miami Playboy Club's pianist , Julian Gould .
Steak House has such a run on beer to wash down that Mexican food `` Tex '' Burgess had to call the draft man twice in one day .
Pualani and Randy Avon , Dave Searles , George ( Papa ) Gill , Al Bandish , Jim Morgart , Bob Neil at the Mouse Trap .
Billy and Jean Moffett at the Rickshaw .
Bea Morley , Jimmy Fazio , Jim O'Hare , Ralph Michaels , Bill and Evelyn Perry at the Escape .
hear that Patricia Murphy flies up to St. John's Newfoundland , next Sunday to attend the government's special ceremonies at Memorial University honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province .
Miss Murphy was born in Placentia , Newfoundland .
Her invitation from Premier Joseph Smallwood is reported to be the only one extended to a woman .
-- The first in a series of five productions will be held in War Memorial Auditorium Thursday , Oct. 26 .
`` Le Theatre D'Art Du Ballet '' , of Monte Carlo , will present a program of four ballets including `` Francesca Da Rimini '' .
The series of ballets is sponsored by the Milenoff Ballet Foundation , Inc. , a non-profit foundation with headquarters in Coral Gables .
Also set for appearances at the auditorium this season are : `` American Ballet Theatre '' on Jan. 27 , `` Ximenez-Vargas Ballet Espagnol '' on Feb. 2 ; ;
Jorge Bolet , pianist , on Feb. 23 ; ;
and `` Dancers of Bali '' on March 8 .
-- A Southeast Library Workshop will be held here Oct. 9 , conducted by Mrs. Gretchen Schenk of Summerdale , Ala. , author , lecturer and library leader .
The workshop will begin at 10 a.m. and end at 3 p.m. in the auditorium of the Library and Fine Arts Building .
Anyone interested in attending the meeting may have reservations with Mrs. John Whelan at the Hollywood Public Library .
At the workshop , Mrs. Schenk will discuss `` the board and the staff , librarian-board relationships , personnel policies , how good is our librarian and staff , how good am I as a library board member and how good is our library '' .
Other workshops will be in Tallahassee Oct. 5 ; ;
Plant City Oct. 11 .
-- A series of high school assemblies to acquaint junior and senior students with the Junior Achievement program begins at St. Thomas Aquinas Monday .
Subsequent assemblies will be held at Stranahan High School Tuesday , at Pompano Beach High Wednesday , and at Fort Lauderdale high Thursday .
More than 300 teenagers last Sunday proved there is and as many more are expected to prove it again for Jim Kern and his wife Lynn from 4 to 8 p.m. Sunday at First Presbyterian Church .
At that time the second half of the Christian Youth Crusade against Communism will be staged .
A young real estate salesman , Kern first got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the Navy Air Force .
When he attended the Christian Anti-Communist Crusade school here about six months ago , Jim became convinced that an individual can do something constructive in the ideological battle and set out to do it .
The best approach , he figured , was to try to influence young people like the high schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church .
And he wanted to be careful that the kids not only learn about Communist but also about what he feels is the only antidote -- a Biblically strong Christianity .
So the Christian Youth Crusade against Communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers and 65 adult advisers from Presbyterian churches of the area sat enthralled at the four-hour program .
This Sunday those attending the second session will hear a lecture by Kern on the world situation ; ;
a review of the philosophy of Communist leaders by Ted Slack , another real estate agent who became interested as a philosophy major at the University of Miami ; ;
and talks on how their Christian faith can guide them in learning about and fighting Communism during high school and college days , by Ted Place , director of Greater Miami Youth for Christ , and Jon Braun , director of Campus Crusade for Christ .
The second half of the film `` Communism on the Map '' and the movie `` Operation Abolition '' also will be shown .
Response to the program has been so encouraging , Kern said , that a city-wide youth school at Dade County Auditorium may be set up soon .
And to encourage other churches to try their own programs , Kern said this Sunday's sessions -- including the free dinner -- will be open to anyone who makes reservations .
The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week in Miami area churches next week .
Of particular meaning to the Charles MacWhorter family , 3181 SW 24th Ter. , will be the Family Dedication Service planned for 10:50 a.m. Sunday at First Christian Church .
It will be the second time the assistant manager of a Coral Gables restaurant and his wife have taken part in the twice-a-year ceremonies for families with new babies .
`` When you stand up in public and take vows to strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the fundamentals of the Christian faith , you strive a little harder to uphold those vows '' , explains the slender vice president of the young couples Sunday school class .
They have five daughters -- Coral Lee , 5 , Glenda Rae , 4 , Pamela , 3 , Karen , 2 , and Shari , five months .
Dade's chief probation officer , Jack Blanton , will lead a discussion on `` The Changes in the American Family '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday at Christ Lutheran Church .
Mr. and Mrs. George Treadwell will be honored at a Family Week supper and program at 6 p.m. Sunday at Trinity Methodist Church .
The outstanding family of Central Nazarene Church will be picked by ballot from among eight families during the 10:45 a.m. Sunday service marking National Family Week .
Every family of Riviera Presbyterian Church has been asked to read the Bible and pray together daily during National Christian Family Week and to undertake one project in which all members of the family participate .
To start the week of special programs at the church , the Rev. John D. Henderson will preach on `` A Successful Marriage '' at 9:40 and 11 a.m. Sunday .
A father and son dinner sponsored by the Men's Club will be held at 6:15 p.m. Monday and the annual church picnic at 4 p.m. next Saturday .
The week will end with the Rev. Mr. Henderson preaching on `` The Marriage Altar '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday , May 14 .
The resignation of the Rev. Warren I. Densmore , headmaster of St. Stephen's Episcopal Day School in Coconut Grove , becomes effective July 15 .
Enrique Jorda , conductor and musical director of the San Francisco Symphony , will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements in Europe before returning home to open the symphony's Golden Anniversary season , it was announced .
The guest assignments are scheduled for November 14 and 18 , with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne .
The season in San Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22 .
During his five-month visit abroad , Jorda recently conducted the Orchestre Philharmonique De Bordeau in France , and the Santa Cecilia Orchestra in Rome .
In announcing Jorda's return , the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on Wednesday .
Guest performers and conductors during the coming season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing with the orchestra , including violinists Yehudi Menuhin , Isaac Stern , Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel ; ;
pianists Leon Fleisher , Ruth Slenczynka and Stephen Bishop and conductor Earl Bernard Murray .
The Leningrad Kirov Ballet , which opened a series of performances Friday night at the Opera House , is , I think , the finest `` classical '' ballet company I have ever seen , and the production of the Petipa-Tschaikowsky `` Sleeping Beauty '' with which it began the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing .
I am prepared to demonstrate at anytime that it represents the spirit of Imperial Russia in its most vulgar , infantile , and reactionary aspect ; ;
It seems to have been chosen exclusively from the winners of beauty contests -- Miss Omsk , Miss Pinsk , Miss Stalingr oops , skip it .
Oh-the-pain-of-it , that convention of Russian ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters of impoverished Grand Dukes driven to the stage out of filial piety , is totally absent from the Kirov .
This is all the more remarkable because the Kirov is to ballet what Senator Goldwater is to American politics .
Irina Kolpakova , the Princess Aurora of Friday's performance , would be a change for the better anywhere , at any time , no matter who had had the role before .
Alla Sizova , who seems to have made a special hit in the East , was delightful as the lady Bluebird and her partner , Yuri Soloviev , was wonderfully virile , acrobatic , and poetic all at the same time , in a tradition not unlike that of Nijinsky .
and Inna Zubkovskaya , an excellent Lilac Fairy , were other outstanding members of the cast , but every member of the cast was magnificent .
The production , designed by Simon Virsaladze , was completely traditional but traditional in the right way .
Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally large orchestra , one containing excellent soloists -- the violin solos by the concertmaster , Guy Lumia , were especially fine -- but one in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally had not had time to achieve much unity .
Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber Music Society .
The season will open at the new Hall of Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p.m. with a concert by the Mills Chamber Players .
Participating members may attend five of the concerts for $9 ( not all ten concerts as was erroneously announced earlier in The Chronicle ) .
Mail orders for the season and orders for single tickets at $2 , may be addressed to the society , 1044 Chestnut Street , San Francisco 9 .
Fire Fighters Local 798 , which is sponsoring the toy program for the 12th straight year , issued a call for San Franciscans to turn in discarded toys , which will be repaired by off-duty firemen .
They will be accepted at all branches of the Bay View Federal Savings and Loan Association , at a collection center in the center of the Stonestown mall , and at the Junior Museum , 16th Street and Roosevelt Way .
Any needy family living in San Francisco can obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys , 676 Howard street , San Francisco 5 , and listing the parent's name and address and the age and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12 .
Famed cellist Pablo Casals took his instrument to the East Room of the White House yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal .
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin .
President Kennedy's invitation to the Spanish-born master said , `` We feel your performance as one of the world's greatest artists would lend distinction to the entertainment of our guests '' .
For A good many seasons I've been looking at the naughty stuff on television , so the other night I thought I ought to see how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies .
So I went to see `` La Dolce Vita '' .
If that's all the Romans did , it's a surprise to me that Rome fell .
After television , `` La Dolce Vita '' seems as harmless as a Gray Line tour of North Beach at night .
`` La Dolce Vita '' has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average TV Western .
Week in , week out , there is more sex to be seen in `` The Adventures Of Ozzie And Harriet '' .
There is more decadence on `` 77 Sunset Strip '' .
With the exception of Lex Barker and Anita Ekberg , the credits are as unfamiliar as you'll find on the Robert Herridge Theater .
The Dolce Vita get-together boasted a strip tease ( carried as far as a black slip ) ; ;
The Chronicle's Paine Knickerbocker summed it up neatly :
Tonight Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature .
Among the subjects discussed will be Russian restrictions on poets and writers in the USSR ( Channel 9 at 9:30 ) .
Person To Person ventilates the home lives of Johnny Mercer and Joan Collins -- both in Southern California ( Channel 5 at 10:30 ) KQED Summer Music Festival features a live concert by the Capello De Musica ( Channel 9 at 8:30 ) .
NBC plans a new series of three long programs exploring America's scientific plans titled `` Threshold '' , to start in the fall .
`` Science In Action '' , San Francisco's venerable television program , will be seen in Hong Kong this fall in four languages : Mandarin , Cantonese , Chiuchow and English , according to a tip from Dr. Robert C. Miller .
When I drove a car with tail fins , I had plenty status at the wind-and-water oases .
`` It is a British Austin , the smallest they make '' .
When I wheeled about , finned fore and aft , I was the darling of the doormen .
With a small bomb , I tuck it between Cadillacs .
At last the White House is going to get some much-copied furniture by that master American craftsman , Duncan Phyfe , whose designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U. S. Presidents of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings .
The American Institute of Decorators has acquired a rare complete set of sofas and chairs which are to be placed in the Executive Mansion's library .
The gift is being presented by `` heirs and descendants of the Rutherford family of New Jersey , whose famous estate , `` Tranquility '' , was located near the Duncan Phyfe workshop at Andover , N. J. .
Authenticated pieces of Duncan Phyfe furniture are uncommon , although millions of American homes today display pieces patterned after the style trends he set 150 years ago .
The AID has undertaken the redecoration of the White House library as a project in connection with the work being done by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy's Fine Arts Advisory Committee to secure antiques for the presidential home .
It is the AID's intention to create in the library `` a miniature museum of Americana '' before completed refurbishing is unveiled early this fall .
The room will also feature another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the Duncan Phyfe furniture .
The AID has found a mantlepiece attributed to Samuel McIntyre of Salem , Mass. , an architect and woodcarver who competed for the designing of the Capitol here in 1792 .
The mantel was found in a recently demolished Salem house and is being fitted over the White House library fireplace .
The AID committee's chairman in charge of the redecoration , Mrs. Henry Francis Lenygon , was in town yesterday to consult with White House staff members on the project .
Mrs. Lenygon's committee associates , announced formally yesterday by the AID in New York , include Mrs. Allen Lehman McCluskey and Stephen J. Jussel , both wellknown Manhattan decorators .
Regional representatives appointed to serve from each section of the country include Frank E. Barnes of Boston .
President Kennedy couldn't stay away from his desk for the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard , N. C. .
At 4 p.m. the President left the White House to welcome the young musicians , students from the ages of 12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp , and to greet the 325 crippled , cardiac and blind children from the District area who were special guests at the concert .
It was the first in the series of `` Concerts for Young People by Young People '' to be sponsored by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy at the White House .
She is vacationing at the Kennedy summer home in Hyannis Port , Mass. , and in his welcoming remarks , the President said he was representing her .
As he approached the open bandstand , erected facing the South entrance to the Executive Mansion , the band struck up the `` Star Spangled Banner '' and followed it with `` Hail To The Chief '' .
`` I think they played Hail To The Chief better than the Marine Corps Band , and we are grateful to them '' , President Kennedy remarked after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor James Christian Pfohl .
After paying tribute to the conductor and his white-clad youthful students , President Kennedy said , `` As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States -- schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music '' .
Displaying his knowledge of music , the New England-born President remarked that `` probably the best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont , by young Americans -- and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary musicians and teachers , and their work is being duplicated all across the United States .
`` This is a great national cultural asset , and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me , representing as I do today my wife , to welcome all of you here today at the White House '' .
As he left the bandstand to return to his office , the slender , sun-tanned Chief Executive paused along the way to shake hands with the members of the audience in wheel chairs forming the first row under the field tent set up for the guests .
He expressed surprise to learn that pretty , blonde Patricia Holbrook , 16 , of Mount Rainier , had attended the Joseph P. Kennedy School for the Handicapped in Boston .
Patricia now attends the C. Melvin Sharpe Health School in the District .
They enjoyed lemonade and cookies served before and during the concert by teenage sons and daughters of members of the White House staff .
Henry Hall Wilson , a student at the music camp 25 years ago and now on the President's staff as liaison representative with the House of Representatives , turned guest conductor for a Sousa march , the `` Stars and Stripes Forever '' .
Transylvania Symphony Conductor Pfohl said yesterday that Mrs. Kennedy's Social Secretary , Letitia Baldrige , told about plans for White House youth concerts before the National Symphony Orchestra League in Philadelphia last spring .
He said he contacted a friend , Henry Hall Wilson , on the President's staff and asked whether his orchestra could play , in the series .
A flow of correspondence between Pfohl and Miss Baldrige resulted in an invitation to the 85-student North Carolina group to play the first concert .
One of the most interested `` students '' on the tour which the Brevard group took at the National Gallery yesterday following their concert at the White House , was Letitia Baldrige , social secretary to First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy .
`` I was an art major in college '' , Miss Baldrige explained .
She turned out to be a fan , too , of Margaret Bouton , the Gallery's associate curator of education .
Miss Bouton headed up one of the four groups that went on simultaneous tours after the Gallery had closed at 5 p.m. .
The Brevard group of 85 arrived at the Gallery at 6 p.m. , remaining for about 45 minutes .
they noticed Roman buildings in the background of Raphael's `` Alba Madonna '' and `` texture '' in a Monet painting of Rheims Cathedral .
Everybody had heard of Van Gogh , the French impressionist .
Gallery Director John Walker greeted the group , standing on one of the benches in the downstairs lobby to speak to them .
He pointed out to the young musicians that the National Gallery `` is the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director , Richard Bales .
I'm sure you've heard of him and his record , ' The Confederacy ' '' .
In 45 minutes , the Gallery leaders had given the students a quick rundown on art from the Renaissance to the late 19th Century .
Among the other artists , whose paintings were discussed were Boucher , Courbet , Fra Angelico .
More than 250 Scottish Rite Masons and guests gathered in their House of the Temple to pay tribute to their most prominent leader , Albert Pike , who headed the Scottish Rite from 1859 to 1891 .
They came together in the huge , high-ceilinged Council Chamber to hear the late leader eulogized .
C. Wheeler Barnes of Denver , head of the Scottish Rite in Colorado , praised Pike as a historian , author , poet , journalist , lawyer , jurist , soldier and musician , who devoted most of his mature years to the strengthening of the Masonic Order .
The ceremony ended with the laying of a wreath at the crypt of Pike in the House of the Temple .
About 1500 delegates are expected to register today for the biennial session of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States .
There will be a pilgrimage to Mount Vernon at 2:30 p.m. .
A wreath will be placed at the tomb of George Washington , one of this Nation's first Masons -- a past master of Washington-Alexandria Lodge 22 in Alexandria .
The marriage of John and Mary Black had clearly reached the breaking point after eight years .
The judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations -- then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from Family Service before going to a lawyer .
Family Service , sharing in UGF , has five agencies in the Washington area .
Because neither of them really wanted their marriage to break up , Mr. and Mrs. Black agreed to a series of interviews at Family Service of Northern Virginia , the agency nearest them .
Family Service could not open its doors to a single family without the financial support of the United Givers Fund .
Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to materialize yesterday , park rangers said , and those who made the trip got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze .
One of the initial questions put to President Kennedy at his first news conference last January was about his attitude toward a meeting with Premier Khrushchev .
The President knew that a confrontation with Mr. Khrushchev sooner or later probably was inevitable and even desirable .
He wanted to buy time to strengthen the U. S. and its allies and to define and begin to implement his foreign policy .
Last Friday the White House announced :
President Kennedy will meet with Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev in Vienna June 3 and 4 .
The heightened tension , in fact , had been a major factor in the President's change of view about the urgency of a meeting with the Soviet leader .
He was not going to Vienna to negotiate -- the simultaneous announcements in Washington and Moscow last week stressed that no formal negotiations were planned .
But Mr. Kennedy had become convinced that a personal confrontation with Mr. Khrushchev might be the only way to prevent catastrophe .
The U. S. and Soviet heads of Government have met three times since Sir Winston Churchill in 1953 introduced a new word into international diplomacy with his call for a fresh approach to the problem of peace `` at the summit of the nations '' .
The first time was in 1955 when a full-dress Big Four summit meeting produced the `` spirit of Geneva '' .
The spirit served chiefly to lull the West while Moscow made inroads into the Middle East .
In 1959 President Eisenhower and Premier Khrushchev held an informal session in the U. S. .
That meeting produced the `` spirit of Camp David '' -- a spirit , it later turned out , that masked a basic misunderstanding about progress toward a Berlin settlement .
On the third occasion -- another Big Four summit session at Paris a year ago -- there was no problem of an illusory `` spirit '' .
Premier Khrushchev wrecked the conference at its initial session with a bitter denunciation of the U. S. for the U-2 incident .
The episode tended to confirm the U. S. belief that propaganda , the hope of one-sided concessions , and the chance to split the Allies , rather than genuine negotiation , were the Soviet leader's real aims in summitry .
Thus when Premier Khrushchev intimated even before inauguration that he hoped for an early meeting with the new President , Mr. Kennedy was confronted with a delicate problem .
`` As long as Mr. Khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is shifting his way , no amount of either smiles or toughness , neither Camp David talks nor kitchen debates , can compel him to enter fruitful negotiations '' .
The President had set for himself the task , which he believed vital , of awakening the U. S. and its allies to the hard and complex effort necessary to shift that balance .
He wanted time , too , to review the United States' global commitments and to test both the policies he had inherited and new ones he was formulating .
Above all , he did not want to appear to be running hat in hand to Premier Khrushchev's doorstep .
At the same time the President took pains not to rule out an eventual meeting with the Soviet leader .
But Mr. Kennedy saw value even in an informal meeting , provided that undue hopes were not raised in connection with it .
It would give him an opportunity to take the measure of his chief adversary in the cold war , to try to probe Mr. Khrushchev's intentions and to make clear his own views .
Moreover , an eventual meeting was desirable if for no other reason than to satisfy world opinion that the U. S. was not inflexible and was sparing no effort to ease international tensions .
Both elements -- the caution about a meeting , the willingness eventually to hold one -- were reflected in a letter from the President which Ambassador Llewellyn E. Thompson brought back to Russia late in February .
The letter , dated Feb. 22 , was delivered to Premier Khrushchev in Novosibirsk , Siberia , on March 9 .
But it also briefly suggested the possibility of a meeting with Mr. Khrushchev before the end of the year if the international climate were favorable and schedules permitted .
There were intense discussions in the inner councils of the White House about the advisability of an early meeting , not because the international climate was improving , but precisely because it was deteriorating alarmingly .
The President was especially concerned about the deadlock in the nuclear test ban negotiations at Geneva .
The deadlock has been caused by the Russians' new demand for a three-man ( East , West and neutral ) directorate , and thus a veto , over the control machinery .
In the U. S. , strong pressures have been building up for a resumption of tests on grounds that the Russians may be secretly testing .
Mr. Kennedy was less troubled by that possibility than by the belief that a Geneva breakdown , or even continued stalemate , would mean an unchecked spread of nuclear weapons to other countries as well as a fatal blow to any hope for disarmament .
There was reason to believe that Premier Khrushchev was also concerned about a possible spread of nuclear weapons , particularly to Communist China .
Moreover , Moscow appeared determined to apply the tripartite veto principle to the executive organs of all international bodies , including the U. N. Secretariat and the International Control Commission for Laos .
Developments in Cuba and Laos also suggested the advisability of an early summit meeting .
Initially the White House reaction was that the bitter exchanges with Moscow over Cuba and the conflict in Laos had dampened prospects for a meeting .
At the same time , there was increased reason for a quick meeting lest the Soviet leader , as a result of those episodes , come to a dangerously erroneous conclusion about the West's ability and determination to resist Communist pressure .
In Cuba , the U. S. had blundered badly and created the impression of impotency against Communist penetration even on its own doorstep .
U. S. willingness to accept a neutral Laos may have led Premier Khrushchev to believe that other areas could be `` neutralized '' on Soviet terms .
Beyond that , Allied disagreement about military intervention in Laos -- despite warnings that they might do so -- allowed Moscow to carry out with impunity a series of military and diplomatic moves that greatly strengthened the pro-Communist forces .
As a result , the West is in a poor bargaining position at the current Geneva negotiations on Laos , and South Vietnam and other nations in Southeast Asia are under increased pressure .
In the light of those events , there appeared to be a real danger that Premier Khrushchev might overreach himself .
Ambassador Thompson reported from Moscow that the Soviet leader's mood was cocky and aggressive .
The President and his advisers felt that the time might have come to warn Premier Khrushchev against a grave miscalculation in areas such as Berlin , Iran or Latin America from which there would be no turning back .
It was in the midst of such White House deliberations that Premier Khrushchev on May 4 made new inquiries through the U. S. Embassy in Moscow about a meeting with the President in the near future .
Mr. Kennedy told Moscow he would give his answer by May 20 after consultation with the Allies .
The response from London , Paris and Bonn was favorable .
Firm arrangements for the meeting in Vienna were worked out in a final exchange between Moscow and Washington last week .
Apparently at the insistence of the U. S. , the simultaneous announcements issued in Washington and Moscow last Friday emphasized the `` informal '' nature of the meeting .
`` The President and Chairman Khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems that involve the interest of many other countries .
The Vienna meeting will bring together a seasoned , 67-year-old veteran of the cold war who , in Mr. Kennedy's own words , is `` shrewd , tough , vigorous , well-informed and confident '' , and a 44-year-old President ( his birthday is May 29 ) with a demonstrated capacity for political battle but little experience in international diplomacy .
The announcement last week of the forthcoming encounter produced strong reactions in the U. S. of both approval and disapproval .
The feeling was that he would sense an inner core of toughness and determination in the President and that plain talk by Mr. Kennedy would give him pause .
There was also the fact that by the time he meets Mr. Khrushchev , the President will have completed conversations with all the other principal Allied leaders .
Thus he will be in a position to disabuse the Soviet leader of any notions he may have about grave Allied disunity .
If tests are to be resumed , the argument went , it is vital that the U. S. make plain that the onus belongs to the Soviet Union .
After Cuba and Laos , it was argued , Mr. Khrushchev will interpret the President's consent to the meeting as further evidence of Western weakness -- perhaps even panic -- and is certain to try to exploit the advantage he now believes he holds .
Moreover , the President is meeting the Soviet leader at a time when the Administration has still not decided on the scope of America's firm foreign policy commitments .
The question was raised , for example , as to what attitude the President would take if Mr. Khrushchev proposes a broad neutral belt extending from Southeast Asia to the Middle East .
Though this may or may not be good biology , it does aptly illustrate the strength and the weakness of American Catholic higher education .
There can be no doubt that the American Catholic accomplishment in the field of higher education is most impressive : our European brethren never cease to marvel at the number and the size of our colleges and universities .
By way of explanation we ourselves are prone to imagine that this achievement stems from the same American Catholic zeal and generosity which brought the parochial school system into existence .
Viewing the American Catholic educational achievement in retrospect , we may indeed see it as a unified whole extending from grade school to university .
But the simple truth is that higher education has never really been an official American Catholic project ; ;
Yet for better or for worse , the truth of the matter is that most American Catholic colleges do not owe their existence to general Catholic support but rather to the initiative , resourcefulness and sacrifices of individual religious communities .
To understand the past history -- and the future potential -- of American Catholic higher education , it is necessary to appreciate the special character of the esprit de corps of the religious community .
It is this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of American Catholic higher education , in particular the wasteful duplication apparent in some areas .
Apart , however , from the question of wasteful duplication , there is another aspect of the `` family business '' spirit in American Catholic higher education which deserves closer scrutiny .
Commenting on the earlier stage , the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors ( in a recent report on the question of faculty participation in administrative decision-making ) noted that the term `` teacher-employee '' ( as opposed to , e.g. , `` maintenance employee '' ) was a not inapt description .
In the above mentioned report of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors , the basic outlook of the new breed of lay faculty emerges very clearly in the very statement of the problem as the members see it : `` Even with the best of intentions he ( the President of the university ) is loath to delegate such authority and responsibility to a group the membership of which , considered ( as it must be by him ) in individual terms , is inhomogeneous , mortal and of extremely varying temperament , interests and capabilities .
The pattern here pictured is clearly not peculiar to Notre Dame : it is simply that the paradox involved in this kind of control of the institution by `` the organization which actually owns '' it , becomes more obvious where there is a larger and more distinguished `` outside '' faculty .
To appreciate the nature of the gamble , it should be realized that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security , that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does in an elementary school system or in the Civil Service .
In the Notre Dame report , reference was made to the fact that faculty members were reduced to `` luncheon-table communication '' .
Sen. John L. McClellan of Arkansas and Rep. David Martin of Nebraska are again beating the drums to place the unions under the anti-monopoly laws .
Or , in the words of Anatole France , `` The law in its majestic equality must forbid the rich , as well as the poor , from begging in the streets and sleeping under bridges '' .
The public atmosphere that has been generated which makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of Mr. McClellan's hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and , later , into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations at the missile sites .
Business Week ( Aug. 9 , 1961 ) reports that the United Aircraft Company , against which the International Association of Machinists had undertaken a strike , decided to keep its plants operating .
The company has billed the United States Government for $7,500,000 of these expenses under the Defense Department regulation allowing costs of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business .
Rep. Frank Kowalski of Connecticut has brought this problem to the attention of the Armed Services Committee .
Neither has Congressman Martin nor Senator McClellan been heard from on the matter ; ;
Let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods industry in which General Electric , Westinghouse and a number of other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy to rig prices and allocate the market .
Naturally , enterprises of the size of General Electric are in a position to structure their prices in such a way that the relatively small competitors can be forced to the wall in a very short time .
The paradox implicit in the whole affair is shown by the demand of the government , after the conviction , that General Electric sign a wide-open consent decree that it would not reduce prices so low as to compete seriously with its fellows .
In other words , the anti-trust laws , designed to reduce prices to the consumer on Monday , Wednesday and Friday , become a tool to protect the marginal manufacturer on Tuesday , Thursday and Saturday .
The past usefulness of the anti-trust laws to management was explained by Thurman Arnold , in The Folklore of Capitalism , back in 1937 .
The acceptance of collective bargaining as a national policy in 1934 , implicit in the writing of Section 7A of the National Industrial Recovery Act , has made it impolitic to oppose collective bargaining in principle .
The Wagner Act , the Taft-Hartley Act and the Landrum-Griffin Act all endorse the principle of collective bargaining .
As early as 1776 , Adam Smith wrote in The Wealth Of Nations : `` We have no acts of Parliament against combining to lower the price of work ; ;
In 1825 , the Boston house carpenters' strike for a ten-hour day was denounced by the organized employers , who declared : `` It is considered that all combinations by any classes of citizens intended to effect the value of labor tend to convert all its branches into monopolies '' .
In People vs. Fisher , Justice Savage of the New York Supreme Court declared :
Compare this statement of a nineteenth-century judge with how Congressman Martin , according to the Daily Labor Report of Sept. 19 , 1961 , defends the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor `` if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages , production or prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his employees to contract on wages , hours and conditions of employment '' .
His bill , allegedly aimed at Hoffa , would amend the Sherman , Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia acts to authorize the issuance of federal injunctions in any transportation strike and would make it illegal for any union to act in concert with any other union -- even a sister local in the same international .
Paradoxically , the same week in which Senator McClellan was attempting to extend the anti-trust act to labor in transportation , the Civil Aeronautics Board was assuring the airlines that if they met in concert to eliminate many costly features of air travel , the action would not be deemed a violation of the anti-trust act .
The passage of the Sherman Act was aimed at giant monopolies .
In the famous Danbury Hatters case , a suit was brought against the union by the Loewe Company for monopolistic practices , e.g. , trying to persuade consumers not to purchase the product of the struck manufacturer .
In 1914 , the Clayton Act attempted to take labor out from under the anti-trust legislation by stating that human labor was not to be considered a commodity .
In 1922 , the United Mine Workers struck the Coronado Coal Company .
At a closed-door session on Capitol Hill last week , Secretary of State Christian Herter made his final report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on U.S. affairs abroad .
Afterward , Tennessee's Democratic Senator Albert Gore summed it up for newsmen .
What Herter presented , said Gore , was `` not a very encouraging review '' .
That was something of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between the West and Communism erupted on three fronts .
While Communists were undermining United Nations efforts to rescue the Congo from chaos , two other Communist offensives stirred the Eisenhower Administration into emergency conferences and serious decisions .
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery , Dictator Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U.S. with a blunt and drastic demand : within 48 hours , the U.S. had to reduce its embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons ( the embassy staff alone totaled 87 U.S. citizens , plus 120 Cuban employees ) .
`` There is a limit to what the United States in self-respect can endure '' , said the President .
Through Secretary Herter , Ike offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new Administration with the breakoff decision .
Kennedy , through Secretary-designate of State Dean Rusk , declined .
He thus kept his hands free for any action after Jan. 20 , although reaction to the break was generally favorable in the U.S. and Latin America ( see the hemisphere ) .
After a White House huddle between the President and top lieutenants , the Defense Department reacted sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North Viet Nam .
`` In view of the present situation in Laos '' , said the Pentagon's announcement , `` we are taking normal precautionary actions to increase the readiness of our forces in the Pacific '' .
Cutting short a holiday at Hong Kong , the aircraft carriers Lexington and Bennington steamed off into the South China Sea , accompanied by a swarm of destroyers , plus troopships loaded with marines .
On the U.S.'s island base of Okinawa , Task Force 116 , made up of Army , Navy , Marine and Air Force units , got braced to move southward on signal .
But by week's end the Laotian cry of invasion was read as an exaggeration ( see foreign news ) , and the U.S. was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies that a neutralist -- rather than a pro-Western -- government might be best for Laos .
`` It would be like fighting the French and Indian War all over again '' , said one military man .
But why was Laos the new Southeast Asian battleground ? ?
At Geneva in 1954 , to get the war in Indo-China settled , the British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state , North Viet Nam -- which then , predictably , became a base for Communist operations against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos .
The late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles considered the 1954 Geneva agreement a specimen of appeasement , saw that resolution would be needed to keep it from becoming a calamity for the West .
`` The important thing from now on '' , he said , `` is not to mourn the past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern Viet Nam from leading to the extension of Communism throughout Southeast Asia '' .
Russian tanks and artillery parading through the streets of Havana , Russian intrigue in the Congo , and Russian arms drops in Laos ( using the same Ilyushin transports that were used to carry Communist agents to the Congo ) made it plain once more that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time .
Soviet Premier Khrushchev sent New Year's hopes for peace to President-elect Kennedy , and got a cool acknowledgment in reply .
but , in Senator Gore's words , it was `` not a very encouraging '' situation that would confront John F. Kennedy on Inauguration Day .
As the 87th Congress began its sessions last week , liberal Democrats were ready for a finish fight to open the sluice gates controlled by the House Rules Committee and permit the free flow of liberal legislation to the floor .
The liberal pressure bloc ( which coyly masquerades under the name Democratic Study Group ) had fought the committee before , and had always lost .
They had the unspoken support of President-elect Kennedy , whose own legislative program was menaced by the Rules Committee bottleneck .
There were two possible methods of breaching the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee : 1 ) to pack it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock , or 2 ) to remove one of the conservatives -- namely Mississippi's 14-term William Meyers Colmer ( pronounced Calmer ) .
Caucusing , the liberals decided to go after Colmer , which actually was the more drastic course , since seniority in the House is next to godliness .
He is generally and initially suspicious of any federal project , unless it happens to benefit his Gulf Coast constituents .
For 20 years he has enjoyed his power on the Rules Committee .
There his vote , along with those of Chairman Howard Smith , the courtly Virginia judge , and the four Republican members , could and often did produce a 6-6 deadlock that blocked far-out , Democratic-sponsored welfare legislation ( a tactic often acceptable to the Rayburn-Johnson congressional leadership to avoid embarrassing votes ) .
In 1949 the Dixiecrats escaped unscathed after their 1948 rebellion against Harry Truman , and in 1957 , after Congressman Adam Clayton Powell campaigned for Dwight Eisenhower in 1956 , his fellow Democrats did not touch his committee assignments , although they did strip him temporarily of his patronage .
( In the heat of the anti-Colmer drive last week , Judge Smith threatened reprisal against Powell .
Said he : `` We will see whether whites and Negroes are treated the same around here '' .
) But Speaker Sam Rayburn , after huddling in Palm Beach with President-elect Kennedy , decided that this year something had to be done about the Rules Committee -- and that he was the only man who could do anything effective .
In a tense , closed-door session with Judge Smith , Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise : to add three new members to the Rules Committee ( two Democrats , including one Southerner , and one Republican ) .
Smith flatly rejected the offer , and Mister Sam thereupon decided to join the rebels .
The next morning he summoned a group of top Democrats to his private office and broke the news : he would lead the fight to oust Colmer , whom he is said to regard as `` an inferior man '' .
When Missouri's Clarence Cannon got the word , he turned purple .
He shouted , and rushed off to the Speaker's Room to object : `` A dangerous precedent '' ! !
Cannon , a powerful , conservative man , brought welcome support to the Smith-Colmer forces : as chairman of the Appropriations Committee , he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects .
Sitting quietly on an equally big pork barrel was another Judge Smith ally , Georgia's Carl Vinson , chairman of the Armed Services Committee .
As the battle raged in the cloakrooms and caucuses , it became clear that Judge Smith could lose .
The liberals , smelling blood , were faced with the necessity of winning three big votes -- in the Democratic Committee on Committees , in the full party caucus , and on the floor of the House -- before they could oust Colmer .
( One big question : If Colmer was to be purged , what should the House do about the other three senior Mississippians who supported the maverick electors ? ?
) In all three arenas , they seemed certain of victory -- especially with Sam Rayburn applying his whiplash .
If the Southerners were sufficiently aroused , they could very well cut the Kennedy legislative program to ribbons from their vantage point of committee chairmanships , leaving Sam Rayburn leading a truncated , unworkable party .
With that possibility in mind , Arkansas' Wilbur Mills deliberately delayed calling a meeting of the Committee on Committees , and coolheaded Democrats sought to bring Rayburn and Smith together again to work out some sort of face-saving compromise .
`` Here are two old men , mad at each other and too proud to pick up the phone '' , said a House Democratic leader .
The Senate launched the 87th Congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative battle , but in contrast with the House's guerrilla war it seemed as pro forma as a Capitol guide's speech .
Question at issue : How big a vote should be necessary to restrict Senate debate -- and thereby cut off legislation-delaying filibusters ? ?
A wide-ranging , bipartisan force -- from Minnesota's Democratic Hubert Humphrey to Massachusetts' Republican Leverett Saltonstall -- was drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats , who have traditionally used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills .
New Mexico's Clint Anderson offered a resolution to change the Senate's notorious Rule 22 to allow three-fifths of the Senators present and voting to cut off debate , instead of the current hard-to-get two-thirds .
Fair Dealer Humphrey upped the ante , asked cloture power for a mere majority of Senators .
Georgia's Dick Russell objected politely , and the battle was joined .
Privately , they also admitted that their hopes for Clint Anderson's three-fifths modification depended on none other than Republican Richard Nixon .
In 1957 Nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of Senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each new Congress , and that any rules laid down by previous Congresses were not binding .
Armed with the Nixon opinion , the Senate liberals rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate on the filibuster battle this week .
Since Election Day , Vice President Richard Nixon had virtually retired -- by his own wish -- from public view .
But with the convening of the new Congress , he was the public man again , presiding over the Senate until John Kennedy's Inauguration .
One day last week , Nixon faced a painful constitutional chore that required him to officiate at a joint session of Congress to hear the official tally of the Electoral College vote , and then to make `` sufficient declaration '' of the election of the man who defeated him in the tight 1960 presidential election .
The Masters golf tournament proved last Monday what it can do to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves .
Gary Player , the small , trim South African , was the eventual winner , but in all his 25 years he never spent a more harrowing afternoon as he waited for the victory to drop in his lap .
The Augusta National Golf Club Course got up and bit both Player and Palmer .
After playing a splendid first nine holes in 34 -- two strokes under par -- on this fifth and final day of the tournament ( Sunday's fourth round had been washed out by a violent rainstorm when it was only half completed ) , Player's game rapidly fell to pieces .
In trying to hit it out with a sand wedge Palmer bounced the ball over the green , past spectators and down the slope toward a TV tower .
Afterwards , Palmer told Charlie Coe , his last-round partner , that he simply played the hole too fast .
He did seem hasty on his second and third shots , but then there was an agonizing wait of several minutes while Coe graciously putted out , giving Palmer a chance to recover his composure , which he had quite visibly lost .
Palmer was now putting merely for a tie , and Player , who was sitting beside his wife and watching it all on television in Tournament Chairman Clifford Roberts' clubhouse apartment , stared in amazement when Palmer missed the putt .
Palmer's 281 for the four rounds at Augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest pro , but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with Coe .
The lean and leathery Oklahoma amateur , who has been playing topnotch tournament golf for many years , refused to let the Masters jitters overtake him and closed the tournament with his second straight 69 .
Until late last Saturday afternoon Palmer had played seven consecutive rounds of golf at the Masters -- four last year and three this -- without ever being out of first place .
As evening approached and Palmer finished his Saturday round with a disappointing one-over-par 73 , this remarkable record was still intact , thanks to his Thursday and Friday rounds of 68 and 69 .
His three-round total of 210 was three strokes better than the next best score , a 213 by Bill Collins , the tall and deliberate Baltimorean who had been playing very well all winter long .
But Palmer knew , as did everybody else at Augusta , that his streak was about to be broken .
Half an hour after he finished his round , Player holed out at the 18th green with a 69 and a three-round total of 206 , four strokes ahead of Palmer .
Long after the erratic climate and the washed-out final round on Sunday have become meteorological footnotes , the 1961 Masters will be remembered as the scene of the mano a mano between Arnold Palmer and Gary Player .
When the winter tour began at Los Angeles last January there was no one in sight to challenge Palmer's towering prestige .
But as the tour reached Pensacola a month ago , Player was leading Palmer in official winnings by a few hundred dollars , and the rest of the field was somewhere off in nowhere .
On the final round at Pensacola , the luck of the draw paired Palmer and Player in the same threesome and , although it was far from obvious at the time , the gallery was treated to the first chapter of what promises to be one of the most exciting duels in sport for a long time to come .
On that final Sunday at Pensacola neither Palmer nor Player was leading the tournament and , as it turned out , neither won it .
He outplayed Palmer all around the course and finished with a tremendous 65 to Palmer's 71 .
Thereafter , until the Masters , Player gradually increased his lead over Palmer in winnings and added one more tournament victory at Miami .
On Thursday , the first day of the Masters , the contest between Palmer and Player developed instantly .
It was a dismal , drizzly day but a good one on which to score over the Augusta National course .
Palmer's 4-under-par 68 got him off to an early lead , which he shared with Bob Rosburg .
Even so , it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators -- unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever -- that this tournament was to be , essentially , a match between Palmer and Player .
A lot of people were still thinking about Jack Nicklaus , the spectacular young amateur , who had a 70 ; ;
( On Thursday nobody except Charlie Coe was thinking of Charlie Coe .
On Friday , a day as cloudless and lovely as Thursday had been gray and ugly , the plot of the tournament came clearly into focus .
Rosburg had started early in the day , and by the time Palmer and Player were on the course -- separated , as they were destined to be for the rest of the weekend , by about half an hour -- they could see on the numerous scoreboards spotted around the course that Rosburg , who ended with a 73 , was not having a good day .
As Player began his second round in a twosome with amateur Bill Hyndman , his share of the gallery was not conspicuously large for a contender .
Starting half an hour behind Player in company with British Open Champion Kel Nagle , Palmer birdied the 2nd , the 9th , the 13th and the 16th -- four birdies , one bogey and 13 pars for a 69 .
The roar of Palmer's gallery as he sank a thrilling putt would roll out across the parklike landscape of Augusta , only to be answered moments later by the roar of Player's gallery for a similar triumph .
At one point late in the day , when Palmer was lining up a 25-foot putt on the 16th , a thunderous cheer from the direction of the 18th green unmistakably announced that Player had birdied the final hole .
Byron Nelson did , Hogan did .
And last week at the Masters Palmer and Player did .
As the third round of the tournament began on Saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest , it was Player's superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead .
As Player stepped on the first tee he knew that Palmer had birdied the first two holes and already was 2 under par for the day .
`` I was hitting the ball well '' , Player said later , `` and I felt strong .
Starting the second nine , Palmer was already four strokes behind Player and knew it .
When Mickey Charles Mantle , the New York Yankees' man of muscle , drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers , his feat touches upon the sublime .
When Roger Eugene Maris , Mantle's muscular teammate , powers four home runs in a double-header , his performance merits awe .
But when tiny , 145-pound Albert Gregory Pearson of the Los Angeles Angels , who once caught three straight fly balls in center field because , as a teammate explained , `` the other team thought no one was out there '' , hits seven home runs in four months ( three more than his total in 1958 , 1959 , and 1960 ) , his achievement borders on the ridiculous .
It is the year when ( 1 ) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and , in unprecedented style , delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs ; ;
( 2 ) Willie Mays of the San Francisco Giants borrowed a teammate's bat and became the ninth big leaguer to stroke four home runs in a game ; ;
and ( 4 ) catcher Johnny Blanchard of the New York Yankees matched a record with home runs in four successive times at bat , two of them as a pinch-hitter .
Experts point to the thinning of pitching talent in the American League caused by expansion .
This , of course , is baseball's most remarkable mark : The 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible epicure , the incredible athlete , George Herman ( Babe ) Ruth of the Yankees .
Since 1927 , fewer than a dozen men have made serious runs at Babe Ruth's record and each , in turn , has been thwarted .
What ultimately frustrated every challenger was Ruth's amazing September surge .
Always , in the abortive attacks upon Ruth's record , one man alone -- a Jimmy Foxx ( 58 in 1932 ) or a Hank Greenberg ( 58 in 1938 ) or a Hack Wilson ( 56 in 1930 ) -- made the bid .
But now , for the first time since Lou Gehrig ( with 47 home runs ) spurred Ruth on in 1927 , two men playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60 .
Their names are Mantle and Maris , their team is the Yankees , and their threat is real .
After 108 games in 1961 , Mickey Mantle has 43 , Roger Maris 41 .
Extend Mantle's and Maris's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162 games , and , mathematically , each will hit more than 60 home runs .
To better Ruth's mark , neither needs a spectacular September flourish .
All Mantle needs is eight more home runs in August and ten in September , and he will establish a new record .
Baseball commissioner Ford Frick has ruled that Ruth's record will remain official unless it is broken in 154 games .
`` Even on the basis of 154 games , this is the ideal situation '' , insists Hank Greenberg , now vice-president of the Chicago White Sox .
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle '' ? ?
Neither Mantle nor Maris , understandably , will predict 60 home runs for himself .
But one thing is for certain : There is no dissension between Mantle , the American League's Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957 , and Maris , the MVP in 1960 .
Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ( `` I hope Roger hits 80 '' , Mantle says ) , and each enjoys even more seeing himself hit home runs ( `` and I hope I hit 81 '' ) .
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle's in Dallas , Maris's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together .
Mantle , Maris , and Bob Cerv , a utility outfielder , share an apartment in Jamaica , Long Island , not far from New York International Airport .
They divide up the household chores : Cerv does most of the cooking ( breakfast and sandwich snacks , with dinner out ) , Mantle supplies the transportation ( a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible ) , and Maris drives the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium .
Mantle , Maris , and Cerv probably share one major-league record already : Among them , they have fifteen children -- eight for Cerv , four for Mantle , and three for Maris .
As roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , Mantle , 29 , who broke in with the Yankees ten years ago , and Maris , 26 , who came to the Yankees from Kansas City two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds .
Both were scholastic stars in football , basketball , and baseball ( Mantle in Commerce , Okla. , Maris in Fargo , N.D. ) ; ;
as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ( `` Sometimes in the minors '' , Maris recalls , `` I wished I had gone to Oklahoma '' ) .
Maris purchases $100 suits from Simpson's in New York .
Neither Mantle nor Maris need fear being classified an intellectual , but lately Mantle has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus , Henry Miller's `` Tropic of Cancer '' .
`` To tell you the truth '' , Maris said , `` Mickey don't talk much '' .
What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris , under constant pressure from writers and photographers , are trying to be cooperative .
Of the two , Mantle is by nature the less outgoing , Maris the more outspoken .
But last week , when a reporter was standing near Mantle's locker , Mickey walked up and volunteered an anecdote .
`` That's ( Yogi ) Berra's .
`` When I've made a dumb play '' , he says , `` I don't want to talk to anyone .
Benched at Tulsa in 1955 , he told manager Dutch Meyer : `` I can't play for you .
( Meyer sent him to Reading , Pa. .
) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956 , he told manager Kerby Farrell : `` I'm not learning anything on the bench .
( Farrell did -- and Maris led the team to victory in the Little World Series .
Maris's was Ted Williams .
`` When I was a kid '' , Maris told a sportswriter last week , `` I used to follow Williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not '' .
Mantle's hero was Joe DiMaggio .
`` When Mickey went to the Yankees '' , says Mark Freeman , an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver , `` DiMaggio still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his .
Neither Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else .
If laying ties on a railroad track , which he once did for $1 an hour , paid more than playing right field for the Yankees , Maris would lay ties on a railroad track .
If working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-1/2 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the Yankees , Mantle would work in a zinc mine .
But since railroading and mining are not the highest paid arts , Mantle and Maris concentrate on baseball .
( `` One of the reasons they get along fine '' , says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men , `` is that both realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris '' .
) Hitting , Mantle has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed , Maris only left-handed .
Maris ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a race against Luis Aparicio , the swift , base-stealing shortstop of the White Sox .
Yet with all their skills , the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one basic : The home run .
Only two teams in each league ( the Yankees and Detroit , the Dodgers and Cincinnati ) are battling for first place .
In 1920 , as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired to lose the World Series leaked out , fans grew disillusioned and disinterested in baseball .
Into Washington on President-elect John F. Kennedy's Convair , the Caroline , winged Actor-Crooner Frank Sinatra and his close Hollywood pal , Cinemactor Peter Lawford , Jack Kennedy's brother-in-law .
Also included in the entourage : a dog in a black sweater , Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission : to stage a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital's National Guard Armory .
Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas , as he had hinted upon his arrival : `` It's really tremendous when you think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia .
The biggest single act would doubtless be staged by Frankie himself : his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by Hollywood Couturier Don Loper , who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles .
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered `` two of everything '' just `` in case he spills anything '' , Frankie got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch of Loper clothing .
A year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps , General David M. Shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a `` happy , warless New Year '' greeting to his Pentagon staff .
Said Leatherneck Shoup : `` A year ago I took the grips of the plow in my hands .
After pushing an accumulation of vines and weeds from the moldboard , I lifted the lines from the dust and found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on .
But Shoup also gave the Corps a tilling in spots .
At a reception for new members of Congress , Oregon Democrat Maurine Neuberger , taking the Senate seat held by her husband Richard until his death last March , got a brotherly buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson , U.S. Ambassador-designate to the U.N. .
Meanwhile , after 24 years in the Senate , Rhode Island's durable Democrat Theodore Francis Greene -- having walked , swum and cerebrated himself to the hearty age of 93 -- left that august body ( voluntarily , because he could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November ) , as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate .
The most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is a current bobby-sox idol , Dreamboat Cacophonist Fabian ( real name : Fabian Forte ) , 17 , and last week it developed that he will remain an undergraduate for a while .
The principal of the school announced that -- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia -- Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics .
South Philadelphia High's principal added that the current delay was caused by the `` pressure '' of a movie that the toneless lad was making .
To Decathlon Man Rafer Johnson ( Time cover , Aug. 29 ) , whose gold medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption as talent , went the A.A.U.'s James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy as the outstanding U.S. amateur athlete of 1960 .
As the world's top sportsman -- pro or amateur -- Sports Illustrated tapped golf's confident Arnold Palmer ( Time cover , May 2 ) , who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and U.S. Open crowns , went on to win a record $80,738 for the year .
Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand Grand Prix , Britain's balding Ace Driver Stirling Moss , 31 , all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination .
It gets so frustrating , but then again I don't know what I could do if I gave up racing '' .
One of Nikita Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers , the U.S.S.R.'s daily Izvestia , enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian Charlie Chaplin at his Swiss villa , where he has been in self-exile since 1952 .
Chaplin , 71 , who met K. when the Soviet boss visited England in 1956 , confided that he hopes to visit Russia some time this summer because `` I have marveled at your grandiose experiment and I believe in your future '' .
Then Charlie spooned out some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed : `` I was captivated by his humor , frankness and good nature and by his kind , strong and somewhat sly face '' .
G. David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of Pittsburgh .
Last week , in the German city of Dusseldorf , G. David Thompson was making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause .
Like Philadelphia's late Dr. Albert C. Barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( Time , Jan. 2 ) , Thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime .
He made his fortune during World War 2 , when he took over a number of dying steel plants and kept them alive until the boom .
He was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the Museum of Modern Art's Alfred Barr said of him : `` I have never mentioned a new artist that Thompson didn't know about '' .
He bought up Cezannes , Braques , Matisses , Legers , a splendid Picasso series , more than 70 Giacometti sculptures .
He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees in the world .
All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's Throw , outside Pittsburgh , and only people he liked and trusted ever got to see them .
He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art dealer named Ernst Beyeler , with whom he had long been trading pictures .
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of Klees to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , which will house them in a museum that is yet to be built .
At the opening of the Dusseldorf show , Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time .
The University of Georgia has long claimed that it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race or color .
Last week Federal District Judge William A. Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately a `` qualified '' Negro boy and girl .
Their entry will crack the total segregation of all public education , from kindergarten through graduate school , in Georgia -- and in Alabama , Mississippi and South Carolina as well .
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university .
They graduated together from Atlanta's Turner High School , where Valedictorian Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third .
Holmes went to Atlanta's Morehouse ( Negro ) College , where he is a B student and star halfback .
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit's Wayne State University .
Last fall , after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to court , Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again .
Charlayne was `` tentatively '' admitted for next fall , after state investigators questioned her white roommate at Wayne State .
The evidence in court was testimony about the interview , which for Holmes lasted an hour , although at least one white student at Georgia got through this ritual by a simple phone conversation .
Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes .
Judge Bootle's decision : `` The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color '' .
`` Surprised and pleased '' , Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia this week .
When the University of Chicago's Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton submitted his resignation last March , a mighty talent hunt gripped the Midway .
Such academic statesmen as James B. Conant were consulted .
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors , including Adlai Stevenson , Richard Nixon , and Harvard's Dean McGeorge Bundy .
The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither a big name nor an experienced academic administrator , but rather , as Trustee Chairman Glen A. Lloyd put it , `` a top scholar in his own right '' -- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago .
Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's acting dean of the faculty : dynamic Geneticist George Wells Beadle , 57 , who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell chemistry ( Time , Cover , July 14 , 1958 ) .
It fell to Chancellor Kimpton , now a Standard Oil ( Indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins .
But though Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order , some old grads feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it in the heady Hutchins era .
At Caltech , Geneticist Beadle has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology division since 1946 .
he avidly reads the Wall Street Journal , and took delight in driving a $250 model A Ford for 22 years , then selling it for $300 .
A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began with the old Adam and consequently will never end .
The man was King Leopold 2 , of the Belgians , who in 1885 concluded that he had better grab a colony while the grabbing was still good .
By force , he took under his protection , or stole , 900,000 square miles of wilderness in Central Africa .
This is an area nearly as large as Western Europe ; ;
The religions of the people include Christianity , Mohammedanism , paganism , ancestor worship and animism .
At first the Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property .
The Belgians were interested primarily in the economic development of the Congo , which is rich in copper , tin , cobalt , manganese , zinc , and uranium , and cotton and palm oil .
The colony was administered from Brussels , with neither the Congolese nor the resident Belgians having any vote .
In Inside Africa , John Gunther describes one of these , the Societe Generale , as `` the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if , let us say , the House of Morgan , Anaconda Copper , the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York , the Pennsylvania Railroad , and various companies producing agricultural products were lumped together , with the United States government as a heavy partner '' .
Had they been truly ruthless , the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese without compassion .
In one large oversimplification , it might be said that the Belgians felt , far too late , the gale of nationalism sweeping Africa .
They lacked time to prepare the Congo , as the British and French had prepared their colonies .
First , there were those Congolese ( among them Joseph Kasavubu ) who favored splitting the country into small independent states , Balkanizing it .
Second , there were those ( Moise Tshombe ) who favored near-Balkanization , a loose federalism having a central government of limited authority , with much power residing in the states .
Third , there were those ( notably Patrice Lumumba ) who favored a unified Congo with a very strong central government .
A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation of the Congo , immediately after independence , was the provincial structure that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration .
They had divided the Congo into six provinces -- Leopoldville , Kasai , Kivu , Katanga , Equator and Eastern -- unfortunately with little regard for ethnic groupings .
The Belgian Congo was granted its independence with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government : there were to be a president and a premier , and a bicameral legislature elected by universal suffrage in the provinces .
If internal frictions arose , they could be handled by the 25,000-man Congolese army , the Force Publique , which had been trained and was still officered by white Belgians .
The president , Joseph Kasavubu , seemed an able administrator and the premier , Patrice Lumumba , a reasonable man .
Presently the well-armed members of the Force Publique -- many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes , erupted in mutiny , rioting , raping and looting .
The Belgian government decided to act , and on July 10 dispatched paratroops to the Congo .
On July 11 the head of the mineral-rich province of Katanga , Moise Tshombe , announced that his province had seceded from the country .
Lumumba and Kasavubu blamed it all on the military intervention by the Belgians , and appealed to the United Nations to send troops to oust them .
On July 14 the Security Council -- with France and Great Britain abstaining -- voted the resolution which drew the U.N. into the Congo .
Vague in wording , it called for withdrawal of Belgian troops and authorized the Secretary-General `` to take the necessary steps to provide the ( Congolese ) Government with such military assistance as may be necessary , until , through the efforts of the Congolese Government with the technical assistance of the United Nations , the national security forces may be able , in the opinion of the Government , to meet fully their tasks .
Secretary-General Hammarskjold decided that it would be preferable if the U.N. troops sent into the Congo were to come from African , or at least nonwhite , nations -- certainly not from the U.S. , Russia , Great Britain or France .
He quickly called on Ghana , Tunisia , Morocco , Guinea and Mali , which dispatched troops within hours .
Ultimately the U.N. army in the Congo reached a top strength of 19,000 , including about 5,000 from India and a few soldiers from Eire and Sweden , who were the only whites .
The Belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops and often obstructed U.N. efforts .
The wildly erratic nature of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems -- he frequently announced that he wanted the U.N. to get out of the Congo along with the Belgians , and appealed to Russia for help .
( However , there is little evidence that the late Lumumba was a Communist .
Before appealing to the U.N. or to Russia , he first appealed to the U.S. for military help , and was rejected .
) Lumumba further complicated the U.N.'s mission by initiating small `` wars '' with the secessionist province of Katanga and with South Kasai which , under Albert Kalonji , wanted to secede as well .
Meanwhile Russia took every opportunity to meddle in the Congo , sending Lumumba equipment for his `` wars '' , dispatching `` technicians '' and even threatening , on occasion , to intervene openly .
But by the end of the three-month period , in October 1960 , something approaching calm settled on the Congo .
President Kasavubu became exasperated with Lumumba and fired him .
Control of the government -- such control as there was and such government as there was -- passed into the hands of Joseph Mobutu , chief of staff of the Congolese army .
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians , who have not since played any significant part on the local scene , although they have redoubled their obstructionist efforts at U.N. headquarters in New York .
The Belgians -- at least officially -- departed from the Congo as well , withdrawing all of their uniformed troops .
But they left behind them large numbers of officers , variously called `` volunteers '' or `` mercenaries '' , who now staff the army of Moise Tshombe in Katanga , the seceded province which , according to Tshombe , holds 65% of the mineral wealth of the entire country .
From October 1960 to February 1961 , the U.N. forces in the Congo took little action .
There was no directive for it -- the Security Council's resolution had not mentioned political matters , and in any case the United Nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political affairs of any nation , whether to unify it , federalize it or Balkanize it .
In February the murder of Patrice Lumumba , who had been kidnaped into Katanga and executed on order of Tshombe , again stirred the U.N. to action .
On Feb. 21 the council passed another resolution urging the taking of `` all appropriate measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the Congo , including the use of force , if necessary , in the last resort '' .
Though President John F. Kennedy was primarily concerned with the crucial problems of Berlin and disarmament adviser McCloy's unexpected report from Khrushchev , his new enthusiasm and reliance on personal diplomacy involved him in other key problems of U.S. foreign policy last week .
High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question of Bizerte .
On this issue , the President received a detailed report from his U.N. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson , who had just returned from Paris , and Mr. Kennedy asked Stevenson to search for a face-saving way -- for both Paris and Tunis -- out of the imbroglio .
Ideally , the President would like the French to agree on a `` status quo ante '' on Bizerte , and accept a new timetable for withdrawing their forces from the Mediterranean base .
To continue their important conversations about the Tunisian issue and the whole range of other problems , Mr. Kennedy invited Stevenson to Cape Cod for the weekend .
The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with the No. 2 man in the Tunisian Government , Defense Minister Bahi Ladgham , who flew to Washington last week to seek U.S. support .
The conversation apparently convinced Mr. Kennedy that the positions of France and Tunisia were not irreconcilable .
Through Ladgham , Mr. Kennedy sent a message along those lines to Tunisian President Habib Bourguiba ; ;
On the Latin American front , the President held talks with Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council ( which the President himself had originally hoped to attend ) .
Main purpose of the meeting : To discuss President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress .
In conferences with Nationalist China's dapper , diminutive Vice President Chen Cheng , Mr. Kennedy assured Chiang Kai-shek's emissary that the U.S. is as firmly opposed as ever to the admission of Red China to the United Nations .
Chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission of Outer Mongolia ; ;
however the President , who would like to woo the former Chinese province away from both Peking and Moscow , would promise Chen nothing more than an abstention by the U.S. if Outer Mongolia's admission comes to a vote .
The President also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking more foreign aid .
To Africa , he sent his most trusted adviser , his brother , Attorney General Robert Kennedy , on a good-will mission to the Ivory Coast .
From International Airport in Los Angeles to International Airport in Houston , as the great four-jet Boeing 707 flies , is a routine five hours and 25 minutes , including stopovers at Phoenix , El Paso , and San Antonio .
When Continental Airlines night-coach Flight 54 took off at 11:30 one night last week , there was no reason to think it would take any longer .
Thirty-one minutes later , when it took off for El Paso , hardly anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard .
At 3:57 a.m. , with the plane about twenty minutes out of El Paso , passenger Robert Berry , a San Antonio advertising man , glanced up and saw the man and boy , accompanied by a stewardess , walking up the aisle toward the cockpit .
John Salvador , a farmer from Palm Desert , Calif. , was sitting up front and could see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit .
Salvador saw the youth hold his against the head of stewardess Lois Carnegey ; ;
the man put his at the head of Capt. Byron D. Rickards .
To Rickards , a 52-year-old veteran 30 years in the air , it was an old story : His plane was being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930 , when Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa .
But last week's pirates , like the Cuban-American who recently hijacked an Eastern Airlines Electra ( Newsweek , Aug. 7 ) , wanted to go to Havana .
The pilot radioed El Paso International Airport with just that message .
Jerry McCauley of Sacramento , Calif. , one of some twenty Air Force recruits on board , awoke from a nap in confusion .
`` The old man came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers to go to Cuba '' , McCauley said , `` and like a nut I raised my hand .
I thought he was the Air Force recruiter '' .
They chose four : Jack Casey , who works for Continental Airlines in Houston ; ;
Fred Mullen from Mercer Island , Wash. ; ;
Pfc. Truman Cleveland of St. Augustine .
Fla. , and Leonard Gilman , a former college boxer and veteran of the U.S. Immigration Service Border Patrol .
Everybody else was allowed to file off the plane after it touched down at El Paso at 4:18 a.m. .
They found a large welcoming group -- El Paso policemen , Border Patrol , sheriff's deputies , and FBI men , who surged around the plane with rifles and submachine guns .
Other FBI men , talking with the pilot from the tower , conspired with him to delay the proposed flight to Havana .
Still more time was consumed while the pilot , at the radioed suggestion of Continental president Robert Six , tried to persuade the armed pair to swap the Boeing jet for a propeller-driven Douglas Aj .
they had orders to that effect straight from President Kennedy , who thought at first , as did most others , that it was four followers of Cuba's Fidel Castro who had taken over the 707 .
At one time , while still under the impression that he was dealing with a Cuban plot , the President talked about invoking a total embargo on trade with Cuba .
As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment .
From the luggage , they learned that the two air pirates , far from being Cubans , were native Americans , subsequently identified as Leon Bearden , 50-year-old ex-convict from Coolidge , Ariz. , and his son , Cody , 16 , a high-school junior .
The father , by accident or perhaps to show , as he said , `` we mean business '' , took the and fired a slug between the legs of Second Officer Norman Simmons .
The tower cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a.m. , and Captain Rickards began taxiing toward the runway .
A few minutes later , FBI agent Francis Crosby , talking fast , eased up the ramp to the plane , unarmed .
While Crosby distracted the Beardens , stewardesses Carnegey and Toni Besset dropped out of a rear door .
So did hostages Casey , Cleveland , and Mullen .
That left only the four crew members , Crosby , and Border Patrolman Gilman , all unarmed , with the Beardens .
He caught officer Simmons' eye , nodded toward young Bearden , and -- `` I swung my right as hard as I could .
( Bearden reportedly hoped to peddle the plane to Castro , and live high in Cuba .
) Back home in Coolidge , Ariz. , his 36-year-old wife , Mary , said : `` I thought they were going to Phoenix to look for jobs '' .
Taking precedence over all other legislation on Capitol Hill last week was the military strength of the nation .
The Senate put other business aside as it moved with unaccustomed speed and unanimity to pass -- 85 to 0 -- the largest peacetime defense budget in U.S. history .
With the money all but in hand , however , the Administration indicated that , instead of the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested , the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000 .
In all , the Senate signed a check for $46.7 billion , which not only included the extra $3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy , but tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for .
( The Senate , on its own , decided to provide additional B-52 and other long-range bombers for the Strategic Air Command .
) The House , which had passed its smaller appropriation before the President's urgent call for more , was expected to go along with the increased defense budget in short order .
The Senate ( by voice vote ) and the House ( by 224-170 ) passed and sent to the White House the compromise farm bill which the President is expected to sign , not too unhappily .
As a result , ever since 1851 when the Senate restaurant opened in the new wing of the Capitol Building , the senators have never ceased to grumble about the food -- even while they opposed every move that might improve it .
Over the years , enlivened chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho potatoes , the menu has pursued its drab all-American course .
Individual senators , with an eye to the voters back home , occasionally introduced smelts from Michigan , soft-shell crabs from Maryland , oysters from Washington , grapefruit from Florida .
But plain old bean soup , served daily since the turn of the century ( at the insistence of the late Sen. Fred Dubois of Idaho ) , made clear to the citizenry that the Senate's stomach was in the right place .
In a daring stroke , the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel .
Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local governments hit a price peak on February 21 , according to Standard & Poor's average .
It's not much more , in fact , than the return that is offered on U. S. Treasury bonds .
A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the most recent 12-month period -- ending in February or March -- shows what is happening .
The report is based on a survey by Blyth & Company , investment bankers .
Look , for example , at the Ohio Turnpike .
Traffic on that road slumped sharply in January and February , as compared with those same months in 1960 .
That same pattern of earnings shows up on the Massachusetts Turnpike .
The 187-mile Illinois State Toll Highway , for example , was not opened over its entire length until December , 1958 .
Higher tolls are planned for July 1 , 1961 , on the Richmond-Petersburg , Va. , Turnpike , and proposals for increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study .
The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration .
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo. .
Traffic and revenues on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners and investors alike .
A top American official , after a look at Europe's factories , thinks the U.S. is in a `` very serious situation '' competitively .
Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on May 10 toured plants of two of Italy's biggest companies -- Fiat , the auto producer , and Olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines .
`` Follow Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant , and you learn this :
`` One , modern equipment -- much of it supplied under the Marshall Plan -- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day .
`` Said Secretary Hodges : ' It's a tough combination for the U.S. to face .
Olivetti took over Underwood , the U.S. typewriter maker , in late 1959 .
`` The Olivetti plant near Turin has modern layout , modern machinery .
`` Hodges predicted : ' I think we will see more foreign firms coming to the U.S. .
The recently unveiled Kennedy moves to control the international textile market can be significant for American businessmen in many lines .
An international conference of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy .
Hong Kong , India and Pakistan have been limiting exports of certain types of textiles to Britain for several years under the `` Lancashire Pact '' .
The Japanese want to increase exports to the U.S. While they have been curbing shipments , they have watched Hong Kong step in and capture an expanding share of the big U.S. market .
Hong Kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to Britain , while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into British market unrestrictedly .
The Indians and Pakistanis are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for similar reasons .
The Kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in Asia and Europe will see that `` dumping '' practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas .
Gradual , controlled expansion of the world's textile trade is what President Kennedy wants .
Note , too , that the Kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U.S. textile industry .
In veiled terms , that's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to the American textile industry .
But the Kennedy Administration doesn't favor import quotas .
Rather , they are impressed with the British Government's success in forcing -- and helping -- the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to other products .
Steel Company of Wales , a British steelmaker , wants to bring in Virginia coal , cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets .
Virginia coal , delivered by ship in Wales , will be about $2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines .
Welsh coal miners , Communist-led , are up in arms at the suggestion that the steel company bring in American coal .
The British Government will have to decide whether to let U.S. coal in .
A startlingly high percentage do not exceed $500 annually , which includes the librarian's salary , and not even the New York Public has enough money to meet its needs -- this in the world's richest city .
New York State has what is probably the most advanced of these co-operative systems , so well developed that it has become a model for others to follow .
Because it is so large a state , with marked contrasts in population density , the organization of the New York co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works .
At one extreme are the systems of upper New York State , where libraries in two or more counties combine to serve a large , sparsely populated area .
At the other are organizations like the newly formed Nassau Library System , in a high-density area , with ample resources and a rapidly growing territory to serve .
So obvious are these advantages that nearly 95 per cent of the population of New York State now has access to a system , and enthusiastic librarians foresee the day , not too distant , when all the libraries in the state will belong to a co-op .
In Nassau County , for example , the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City , the system is credited by the state with serving one million persons , a figure that has doubled since 1950 .
On microfilm , headquarters also has a file of the New York Times from its founding in 1851 to the present day , as well as bound volumes of important periodicals .
It is connected by teletype with the State Library in Albany , which will supply any book to a system that the system itself cannot provide .
Public libraries in Nassau County have been lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century , but the system enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive basis .
This catalogue lists separately films suitable for children , young adults , or adults , although some classics cut across age groups , such as `` Nanook Of The North '' , `` The Emperor's Nightingale '' , and `` The Red Balloon '' .
and it publishes Sum And Substance , a monthly newsletter , which reports the system's activities to the staffs and trustees of member libraries .
The great advances made in recent years in Communist strength and in our own capacity to destroy require an educated citizenry in the Western world .
Although progress has been made in America's system of libraries it still falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that are needed for an informed America .
In college libraries , 57 per cent of the total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed last year by the U.S. Office of Education .
This is one of the main reasons for National Library Week , April 16-22 , and for its theme : `` For a richer , fuller life , read '' ! !
The General Assembly , which adjourns today , has performed in an atmosphere of crisis and struggle from the day it convened .
There followed the historic appropriations and budget fight , in which the General Assembly decided to tackle executive powers .
Fortunately it spared us from the usual spate of silly resolutions which in the past have made Georgia look like anything but `` the empire state of the South '' .
In the interim between now and next year , we trust the House and Senate will put their minds to studying Georgia's very real economic , fiscal and social problems and come up with answers without all the political heroics .
The League of Women Voters , 40 now and admitting it proudly , is inviting financial contributions in the windup of its fund drive .
These women whose organization grew out of the old suffrage movement are dedicated to Thomas Jefferson's dictum that one must cherish the people's spirit but `` Keep alive their attention '' .
`` If once they become inattentive to the public affairs '' , Jefferson said , `` you and I , and Congress and assemblies , judges and governors , shall all become wolves '' .
Look to Coosa Valley for industrial progress
Cities and counties interested in industrial development would do well in the months ahead to keep their eyes peeled toward the 13 northwest Georgia counties that are members of the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission .
Coupling its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by Gov. Vandiver , the group expects to sign a contract in March with Georgia Tech. .
Then a full-time planning office will be established in Rome to work with a five-member Georgia Tech research staff for development of an area planning and industrial development program .
Rusk idea strengthens United States defense
The Rusk belief in balanced defense , replacing the Dulles theory of massive retaliation , removes a grave danger that has existed .
The danger lay not in believing that our own A-bombs would deter Russia's use of hers ; ;
By maintaining the nuclear deterrent , but gearing American military forces to fight conventional wars too , Secretary of State Rusk junks bluff and nuclear brinkmanship and builds more muscle and greater safety into our military position .
That such expansion can be obtained without a raise in taxes is due to growth of the tax digest and sound fiscal planning on the part of the board of commissioners , headed by Chairman Charles O. Emmerich who is demonstrating that the public trust he was given was well placed , and other county officials .
G. Mennen Williams is learning the difficulties of diplomacy rapidly .
Touring Africa , the new U.S. Assistant Secretary of State observed `` Africa should be for the Africans '' and the British promptly denounced him .
Then he arrived in Zanzibar and found Africans carrying signs saying `` American imperialists , go home '' .
Confidence in the state's economic future is reflected in the Georgia Power Company's record construction budget for this year .
Georgia's mental health program received a badly needed boost from the General Assembly in the form of a $1,750,000 budget increase for the Milledgeville State Hospital .
Actually it amounts to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving , considering the additional half-million dollars Gov. Vandiver allocated last year from the state surplus .
Rafael Trujillo , the often blood-thirsty dictator of the Dominican Republic for 31 years , perhaps deserved his fate in an even-handed appraisal of history .
But whether the murder of El Benefactor in Ciudad Trujillo means freedom for the people of the Caribbean fiefdom is a question that cannot now be answered .
The responsibility for scores of deaths , including the abduction and murder of Jesus Maria Galindez , a professor at Columbia University in New York , has been laid at his door .
He had been involved in countless schemes to do away with democratic leaders in neighboring countries such as President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela .
It was a sort of poetic justice that at the time of his own demise a new plot to overthrow the Venezuelan government , reportedly involving the use of Dominican arms by former Venezuelan Dictator Marcos Perez Jimenez , has been uncovered and quashed .
The recent history of the Dominican Republic is an almost classical study of the way in which even a professedly benevolent dictatorship tends to become oppressive .
He maintained amply financed lobbies in the United States and elsewhere which sycophantically chanted his praise , and his influence extended even to Congress .
Until the last year or so the profession of friendship with the United States had been an article of faith with Trujillo , and altogether too often this profession was accepted here as evidence of his good character .
Last year , after Trujillo had been cited for numerous aggressions in the Caribbean , the United States and many other members of the Organization of American States broke diplomatic relations with him .
There was considerable evidence of a tacit rapprochement with Castro in Cuba , previously a bete noire to Trujillo -- thus illustrating the way in which totalitarianism of the right and left coalesces .
The Dominican Republic could turn toward Communist-type authoritarianism as easily as toward Western freedom .
For that reason any democratic reform and effort to bring genuine representative government to the Dominican Republic will need the greatest sympathy and help .
High-speed buses on the George Washington Memorial Parkway , operating between downtown Washington and Cabin John , Glen Echo and Brookmont , would constitute an alluring sample of what the new National Capital Transportation Agency can do for this city .
In presenting plans for such express buses before the Montgomery County Council , the administrator of the NCTA , C. Darwin Stolzenbach , was frankly seeking support for the projects his agency will soon be launching .
The NCTA is well advised to seek funds for this purpose from the present session of Congress .
The inference has been too widely accepted that because the Communists have succeeded in building barricades across Berlin the free world must acquiesce in dismemberment of that living city .
Though Walter Ulbricht , by grace of Soviet tanks , may be head man in East Germany , that does not give him any right to usurp the government of East Berlin or to absorb that semi-city into the Soviet zone .
The wartime protocol of September 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` Greater Berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation .
It was not a part of any one of the three ( later four ) zones for occupation by Soviet , American , British , and French troops respectively .
After the Berlin blockade and airlift , the Council of Foreign Ministers in 1949 declared a purpose `` to mitigate the effects of the present administrative division of Germany and of Berlin '' .
For some time the Communists honored the distinction between the Soviet zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin by promulgating separately the laws for the two areas .
Then they moved offices of the East German puppet government into East Berlin and began illegally to treat it as the capital of East Germany .
That this and the closing of the East Berlin-West Berlin border have not been accepted by the Western governments appears in notes which Britain , France , and the United States sent to Moscow after the latter's gratuitous protest over a visit of Chancellor Adenauer and other West German officials to West Berlin .
The Chancellor had as much business there as Ulbricht had in East Berlin -- and was certainly less provocative than the juvenile sound-truck taunts of Gerhard Eisler .
The British and other replies to that Moscow note pointed out efforts of the Communist authorities `` to integrate East Berlin into East Germany by isolating it from the outside and attempting to make it the capital of East Germany '' .
One ground of action certainly exists when fusillades of stray shots go over into West Berlin as Communist `` vopos '' try to gun down fleeing unarmed residents .
Another remained when an American Army car was recovered but with a broken glass .
Remembering the step-by-step fate of Danzig and the West German misgivings about `` salami '' tactics , it is to be hoped that the dispatch of General Clay to West Berlin as President Kennedy's representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed .
Prairie National Park
That picture of the American prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of those who have studied the conquest of the American continent as any later cinema image of the West made in live-oak canyons near Hollywood .
For it was the millions of buffalo and prairie chicken and the endless seas of grass that symbolized for a whole generation of Americans the abundant supply that was to take many of them westward when the Ohio and Mississippi valleys began to fill .
The National Park Service now proposes to preserve an area in Pottawatomie County , northeast Kansas , as a `` Prairie National Park '' .
The Park Service makes an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new park .
A Philadelphia distiller is currently breaching the customary prohibition against hard-liquor advertising on TV and radio .
Starting with small stations not members of the National Association of Broadcasters , the firm apparently is seeking to break down the anti-liquor barriers in major-market stations .
Probably the best answer to this kind of entering wedge is congressional action requiring the Federal Communications Commission to ban such advertising through its licensing power .
The National Association of Broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor commercials .
Even the Distilled Spirits Institute has long had a specific prohibition .
Simply because the subverting action of firms that are not members of the Distilled Spirits Institute and of radio and TV stations that are not members of the NAB tends to spread .
Although the false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which TV soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied , there is a sad difference between enticing a viewer into sipping Oopsie-Cola and gulling him into downing bourbon .
New York : Democrats' choice
Registered Democrats in New York City this year have the opportunity to elect their party's candidates for Mayor and other municipal posts and the men who will run their party organization .
Mayor Robert F. Wagner must , as his opponents demand , assume responsibility for his performance in office .
State Controller Arthur Levitt , on the other hand , cannot effectively deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than in the city's welfare .
Mayor Wagner's shortcomings have perhaps been more mercilessly exposed than those of Mr. Levitt who left an impression of quiet competence in his more protected state post .
As Mayor , Mr. Levitt might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters would like .
Mr. Wagner might or might not be a `` new '' Mayor in this third term , now that he is free of the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls `` bosses '' .
If this choice is less exciting than New York Democrats may wish , it nevertheless must be made .
Both Mr. K's have so far continued to speak softly and carry big sticks over Laos .
President Kennedy , already two quiet demands down , still refused Thursday to be drawn into delivering a public ultimatum to Moscow .
And Secretary Rusk , en route to Bangkok , doubtless is trying to make emergency arrangements for the possible entry of Australian or Thai SEATO forces .
For Mr. Kennedy , speaking softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad situation .
The new President is in no position to start out his dealings with Moscow by issuing callable bluffs .
In this case he has put the alternatives clearly to Mr. Khrushchev for the third time .
At his press conference Mr. Kennedy said , `` All we want in Laos is peace not war a truly neutral government not a cold war pawn '' .
Since Laos is of no more purely military value to Moscow itself than it is to Washington , this approach might be expected to head off Mr. Khrushchev for the moment .
But because of the peculiar nature of the military situation in Laos , the Soviet leader must be tempted to let things ride -- a course that would appear to cost him little on the spot , but would bog Washington in a tactical mess .
The hard core of the pro-Communist rebel force numbers only some 2,000 tough Viet Minh guerrilla fighters .
But for the United States and its SEATO allies to attempt to shore up a less tough , less combat-tested government army in monsoon-shrouded , road-shy , guerrilla-th'-wisp terrain is a risk not savored by Pentagon planners .
But if anything can bring home to Mr. Khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this Braddock-against-the-Indians contest , it will probably be the fact that SEATO forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that Moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with Washington .
Fortunately both the Republicans and America's chief Western allies now are joined behind the neutral Laos aim of the President .
Actually it would be more accurate to say that the leader of the alliance now has swung fully behind the British policy of seeking to achieve a neutral Laos via the international bargaining table .
The State Department tacitly rejected the neutral Laos idea after the Geneva conference of 1954 , and last year Washington backed the rightist coup that ousted neutral Premier Souvanna Phouma .
But since last fall the United States has been moving toward a pro-neutralist position and now is ready to back the British plan for a cease-fire patrolled by outside observers and followed by a conference of interested powers .
But for the safety of Southeast Asia , and for the sake of the Laotian people -- who would not be well-ruled by either militant minority now engaged in the fighting -- this last big effort to seal that country from the cold war had to be made .
The world awaits Mr. Khrushchev's choice of alternatives .
The Senate's overwhelming ( 64-13 ) vote to support locally controlled educational TV efforts should be emulated in the lower house .
Twice previously the Senate has approved measures backing ETV and the House has let them die .
This year's Senate measure would provide each state and the District of Columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private , state , or municipal ETV efforts .
Goodby , Mr. Sam
Sam Rayburn was a good man , a good American , and , third , a good Democrat .
Mr. Speaker , Mr. Sam , and Mr. Democrat , at one and the same time .
The House was his habitat and there he flourished , first as a young representative , then as a forceful committee chairman , and finally in the post for which he seemed intended from birth , Speaker of the House , and second most powerful man in Washington .
He was no flaming liberal , yet the New Deal , the Fair Deal and the New Frontier needed him .
He made good , plain American common sense and the House usually recognized it and acted upon it .
These public efforts were rare because Mr. Rayburn normally did his counseling , persuading and educating long before an issue reached its test on the House floor .
There are only two men remaining in Congress who , with Rayburn , voted for the declaration of war against Germany in 1917 .
To almost two generations of Americans it must have seemed as though the existence of Mr. Sam coincided with that of the House .
Woodrow Wilson , with whom he began his years in Washington , Warren G. Harding , Calvin Coolidge , FDR , with whom he managed a social revolution .
And those still with us , Herbert C. Hoover , Harry S. Truman , Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy .
Mr. Truman has only to recall the `` hopeless '' campaign of 1948 to remember what a loyal partisan he was and the first experience of Mr. Kennedy with Congress would have been sadder than it was had not Mr. Sam been there .
Under any name -- Mr. Speaker , Mr. Democrat , Mr. Sam -- he was a good man .
Thirteen Italian airmen who went to the Congo to serve the cause of peace under the United Nations banner have instead met violent death at the hands of Congolese troops supposedly their friends .
The excuse was offered for them that they had mistaken the Italians for Belgian mercenaries .
Does this suggest that the Congo is fit for nationhood or that UN is making any progress whatever toward its goal of so making it ? ?
It happens in the territory of the Leopoldville government , which is itself a fiction , demonstrably incapable of governing , and commanding only such limited credit abroad as UN support gives it .
The main question raised by the incident is how much longer will UN bury its head in the sand on the Congo problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in present terms ? ?
The probable answer is that it will do so just as long as Russia can exercise a veto in favor of chaos and until young African nations wake up to the truth that out of false pride they are visiting ruin on Central Africa .
Right now , they are pushing a resolution which would have UN use its forces to invade and subjugate Katanga .
But if any realism and feeling for truth remain in the General Assembly , it is time for men of courage to measure the magnitude of the failure and urge some new approach .
A recent editorial discussing a labor-management agreement reached between the Southern Pacific Co. and the Order of Railroad Telegraphers has been criticized on the grounds that it was not based on complete information .
The situation with regard to the Southern Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable to other situations in other industries .
Time was when the house of delegates of the American Bar association leaned to the common sense side .
But the internationalists have taken over the governing body of the bar , and when the lads met in St. Louis , it was not to grumble about the humidity but to vote unanimously that the United Nations was scarcely less than wonderful , despite an imperfection here and there .
Meanwhile , in Moscow , Khrushchev was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of TNT , to knock sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice of surrendering West Berlin to communism .
A nuclear pacifier of these dimensions -- roughly some six and a half times bigger than anything the United States has triggered experimentally -- would certainly produce a bigger bang , and , just for kicks , Khrushchev might use it to propel the seminar of the house of delegates from St. Louis to the moon , where there wouldn't even be any beer to drink .
The only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort .
Another evidence of the spreading rule of reason was provided from Mexico City with the daily hijacking of an American plane by a demented Algerian with a gun .
The craft made the familiar unwelcome flight to Havana , where , for some unknown reason , Castro rushed to the airport to express mortification to the Colombian foreign minister , a passenger , who is not an admirer of old Ten O'Clock Shadow .
The plane was sent back to the United States , for a change , but Castro kept the crazy gunman , who will prove a suitable recruit to the revolution .
Less respect for the legal conventions was displayed by Castro's right hand man , Che Guevara , who edified the Inter-American Economic and Social council meeting in Montevideo by reading two secret American documents purloined from the United States embassy at Caracas , Venezuela .
The contents were highly embarrassing to American spokesmen , who were on hand to promise Latin Americans a 20 billion dollar foreign aid millennium .
Perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing American diplomatic papers and planes , but the Kennedy administration can always file a demurrer to the effect that , but for its own incompetence in protecting American interests , these things would not happen .
The same can be said about the half-hearted Cuban invasion mounted by the administration last April , which , we trust , is not symptomatic of the methods to be invoked in holding off the felonious Khrushchev .
The board of suspension of the Interstate Commerce commission has ordered a group of railroads not to reduce their freight rates on grain , as they had planned to do this month .
Word of Dag Hammarskjold's death in an African plane crash has sent a shockwave around the globe .
As head of the United Nations he was the symbol of world peace , and his tragic end came at a moment when peace hangs precariously .
Mr. Hammarskjold was in Africa on a mission of peace .
He had sought talks with Moise Tshombe , the secessionist president of Congo's Katanga province where recent fighting had been bloody .
The U.N.-chartered plane which was flying from the conference city of Ndola in Northern Rhodesia had been riddled with machinegun bullets last weekend and was newly repaired .
The death of Mr. Hammarskjold removes the United Nations' most controversial leader .
When the recent Katangan outbreaks imperiled these solutions Mr. Hammarskjold , despite the danger , flew to exert a calming influence .
All nine members of the Inter-American Center Authority voted for Goodbody & Company's proposal to finance the long-awaited trade and cultural center .
Then Goodbody will hand over a minimum of $15.5 million for developing the spacious Graves Tract to house the center .
The next step awaits approval today by the Metro commissioners as the members of the Dade County Port Authority .
The City of Miami recently yielded a prior claim of $8.5 million on the Graves Tract to clear the way for the project .
Interama , as it rises , will be a living monument to Greater Miami's ability to get together on worthwhile enterprises .
progress , or lack of it , toward civil rights in the 50 states is reported in an impressive 689-page compilation issued last week by the United States Commission on Civil Rights .
`` The established pattern of relative calm in the field of race relations has continued in all areas '' , reported this group headed by Harold Colee of Jacksonville and including two South Floridians , William D. Singer and John B. Turner of Miami .
West Germany remains Western
West Germany will face the crucial tests that lie ahead , on Berlin and unification , with a coalition government .
Chancellor Adenauer's Christian Democratic Party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough to lose the absolute Bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957 .
Both Willy Brandt's Social Democrats , who gained 22 seats in the new parliament , and the Free Democrats , who picked up 23 , will insist on that before they enter the government .
Moon-faced Ludwig Erhart , the economic expert , probably will ascend to the leadership long denied him .
If he becomes chancellor , Dr. Erhart would make few changes .
The wizard who fashioned West Germany's astonishing industrial rebirth is the soul of free enterprise .
He is dedicated to building the nation's strength and , as are all West Germans , to a free Berlin and to reunion with captive East Germany .
If the party of Adenauer and Erhart , with 45 per cent of the vote , approaches the party of Willy Brandt , which won 36 per cent , the result would be a stiffening of the old resolve .
West Berlin's Mayor Brandt vigorously demanded a firmer stand on the dismemberment of his city and won votes by it .
The Free Democrats ( 12 per cent of the vote ) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with the Soviet Union , and more dealings with the Communist bloc .
The question left by the election is whether West Germany veers slightly toward more firmness or more flexibility .
And the career of Konrad Adenauer , who upheld Germany's tradition of rock-like leaders which Bismarck began , draws near the end .
According to The Chicago Tribune News Service , State Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk of California has devised a series of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization seeking his money and his name : 1 .
Does it attempt to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars , Communism , depression , and other troubles of the world ? ?
Falling somewhere in a category between Einstein's theory and sand fleas -- difficult to see but undeniably there , nevertheless -- is the tropical green `` city '' of Islandia , a string of offshore islands that has almost no residents , limited access and an unlimited future .
Whatever land you can see here , from the North tip end of Elliott Key looking southward , belongs to someone -- people who have title to the land .
And until this protection is at least as concrete as , say , the row of hotels that bars us from our own sands at Miami Beach , those who represent us all should agree to nothing .
The reaction of certain City Council members to California's newest anti-secrecy laws was as dismaying as it was disappointing .
In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes , collectively known as the Brown Act , the Legislature declares that `` the public commissions , boards and councils and other public agencies in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business .
Since 1953 California has led the nation in enacting guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted , but not until this year did the lawmakers in Sacramento plug the remaining loopholes in the Brown Act .
If the Dominican Republic achieves free , democratic government , it will be due in large part to the U.S. show of force that enabled President Balaguer to prevent a threatened restoration of Trujillo dictatorship .
Outwardly , Ciudad Trujillo is calm .
Ultimately either the Trujillos would have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions favorable to a takeover by Dominican elements responsive to Castro in Cuba .
Within the Organization of American States , there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention which was not without risk obviously .
But there was no complaint from the Dominican crowds which lined Ciudad Trujillo's waterfront shouting , `` Vive Yankees '' ! !
More , the U.S. action was hailed by a principal opposition leader , Dr. Juan Bosch , as having saved `` many lives and many troubles in the near future '' .
In cooperating toward that objective , OAS might move with the speed and effectiveness demonstrated by the United States .
The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union members .
That breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations .
Walter Reuther , leader of the industrial union faction of the AFL-CIO , says another two years of this squabbling will be disastrous for all American labor .
Whether it could be as disastrous for American labor as , say , Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters , is a matter of conjecture .
the Army , Navy and Air Force , among others , may question Secretary Freeman's claim that the high estate of United States agriculture is the `` strongest deterrent '' to the spread of communism .
Mr. Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production -- or even by the Soviet's successes in space .
And thus far , Mr. Freeman has offered very little relief .
Perhaps , as Mr. Freeman says , American agriculture may stop the Communists , but it is also swindling the American taxpayer .
A senate subcommittee headed by Sen. Jackson of Washington has been going over the State Department and has reached some predictable conclusions .
The department needs a clearer `` sense of direction '' at the top and it needs fewer , but better , people , Sen. Jackson says .
Nor does Sen. Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the study of foreign policy .
This tends to create friction and confusion and has not made it easier for Secretary Rusk to restore vigor and initiative among his subordinates .
But competent observers believe he is making progress , particularly toward what Sen. Jackson lists as the primary need -- `` a clearer understanding of where our vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them '' .
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
Mr. Rusk should also draw comfort from Sen. Jackson's recommendation that congressional methods of dealing with national security problems be improved .
But now apparently the job of Secretary of Labor requires that he be willing to risk his reputation as a prognosticator of unemployment trends .
James P. Mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago .
His successor , Secretary Goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months .
No betting man , Mr. Goldberg says he's merely `` putting my neck out again '' by predicting the rate will go down this month .
Cambodia's chief of state , who has been accused of harboring Communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for neighboring South Viet Nam and Thailand , insists he would be very unhappy if communism established its power in Southeast Asia .
But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel .
Commerce Secretary Hodges seems to have been cast in the role of pacemaker for official Washington's economic forecasters .
Recently Treasury Secretary Dillon and Labor Secretary Goldberg fell into line with Mr. Hodges' appraisal , though there has been some reluctance to do so at the White House .
And now Mr. Hodges has pioneered further into the economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped sliding and that it should start going upward from this point .
February's volume was 1 per cent above January's for the first pickup since last October , although it's still 1.5 per cent off from February 1960 .
Corroborating Mr. Hodges' figures was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4 .
Another optimistic sign , this one from the Labor Department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending Feb. 25 '' .
In New Jersey , too
Now the Stone Harbor bird sanctuary , 31 acres of magic attraction for exotic herons , is threatened , but the battlefront extends far beyond our state .
Against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline , the tiny tract at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant .
But Interior Secretary Udall warns that there is a race on between those who would develop our few surviving open shorelines and those who would save them for the enjoyment of all as public preserves .
The move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod , from Provincetown to Chatham , is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest in that area .
By comparison , Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the Audubon Society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there .
But there is hope , for Conservation Commissioner Bontempo has tagged the sanctuary as the kind of place the state hopes to include in its program to double its park space .
The desirability of preserving such places as the Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year .
much of the glamor President Kennedy's Peace Corps may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by Sargent Shriver , the head corpsman .
Anybody who is expecting a joyride should , according to Mr. Shriver , get off the train right now .
The study of the St. Louis area's economic prospects prepared for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St. Louis Survey of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois countryside .
Slackened regional demand for St. Louis goods and services reflects the region's relative lack of purchasing power .
Not all St. Louis industries , of course , have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood .
The city has a stake in stimulating growth and purchasing power throughout outstate Missouri and Southern Illinois .
Gov. Dalton's New Commerce and Industry Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective effort to attract new industry .
Another would be to take the advice of Dr. Elmer Ellis , president of the University of Missouri , and provide for an impartial professional analysis of Missouri's economy .
The research center of the University's School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake the analysis Dr. Ellis has been talking about .
He and Dean John W. Schwada of the Business School outlined the project at a recent conference .
In Southern Illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth .
The Carbondale Industrial Development Corp. has obtained a $500,000 loan to help defray the cost of remodeling a city-owned factory to accommodate production that will provide 500 new jobs .
The Federal program eventually should have a favorable impact on Missouri's depressed areas , and in the long run that will benefit St. Louis as well .
Politics-ridden St. Clair county in Illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development .
More industrial acreage lies vacant in St. Clair county than in any other jurisdiction in the St. Louis area .
The unstable political situation there represents one reason new plants shy away from the East Side .
And then there is St. Louis county , where the Democratic leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning , of the important relationship between proper land use and economic growth .
Some plant-location specialists take these signs to mean St. Louis county doesn't want industry , and so they avoid the area , and more jobs are lost .
Metropolitan St. Louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi .
Without a great acceleration in the metropolitan area's economy , there will not be sufficient jobs for the growing numbers of youngsters , and St. Louis will slip into second-class status .
Take , for example , the reformers among New York City's Democrats .
Having whipped Mr. De Sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of Tammany Hall , they have changed the name to Chatham Hall .
Granted that the Tammany name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to their credit .
After all , it goes back to the days in which sedition was not un-American , the days in which the Sons of St. Tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force and violence -- the British government , that is .
The White House itself has taken steps to remove a former Batista official , Col. Mariano Faget , from his preposterous position as interrogator of Cuban refugees for the Immigration Service .
The Kennedy Administration had assured anti-Castro Cubans that it would have nothing to do with associates of Dictator Batista .
Using a Batista man to screen refugees represented a total misunderstanding of the democratic forces which alone can effectively oppose Castro .
Moreover , Col. Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' Castro agents ; ;
the Colonel fled to the friendly haven of the Dominican dictatorship as soon as Castro seized power .
And while he had headed Batista's anti-Communist section , the Batista regime did not disturb the Communists so much as more open opponents who were alleged to be Communists .
Responsibility for the Faget appointment rests with Gen. J. M. Swing , an Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service .
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania , at a moment when the Kennedy Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it could get .
At that point the Administration will have little reason to hang onto Gen. Swing .
The Faget case was the kind of salvage job the Administration should not have to repeat .
As President , Dwight D. Eisenhower often assumed a role aloof from the strife of partisan politics .
As a former President , however , Mr. Eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during a New York Republican rally , and generally missed his target .
Mr. Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a `` juvenile experiment '' and to suggest sending a Corps member to the moon .
His words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships dedicated to the same goal of international understanding .
The former President blithely ignored recent history in speaking of `` dollarette '' dollars under Kennedy Administration fiscal policies .
It was the Eisenhower Administration which produced the largest peacetime deficit .
Finally , Mr. Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington .
This statement recalls the 1959 Berlin crisis , when President Eisenhower first told reporters that Berlin could not be defended with conventional weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the picture too .
Some of former President Truman's off-the-cuff discourses have been in that vein .
Nobody can deny the right of former Chief Executives to take part in politics , but the American people expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility .
Mr. Eisenhower's New York speech does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship .
The Queen Mary has long been a symbol of speed , luxury , and impeccable British service on the high seas .
But the Cunard line , influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment , has decided to keep the Queen Mary in service until next Spring at least .
A new queen , with the prosaic title of Q3 , had been planned for several years to replace the Queen Mary .
The British government , concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding industry , had put through a bill to give Cunard loans and grants totaling $50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger liner .
Competition from other steamship lines has cut Cunard's share of sea passengers from one-third to one-fourth and this year the line showed a marked drop of profits on the Atlantic run .
The Cunard line has under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons .
Also under consideration is an increased investment in Cunard Eagle Airways which has applied to serve New York .
The decline of the Cunard line from its position of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development in the history of transportation .
Mission to Viet Nam
Gen. Maxwell Taylor's statement in Saigon that he is `` very much encouraged '' about the chances of the pro-Western government of Viet Nam turning back Communist guerrilla attacks comes close to an announcement that he will not recommend dispatching United States troops to bolster the Vietnamese Army .
Gen. Taylor will report to President Kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to South Viet Nam and , judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the Far East , he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of Vietnamese military , economic , political and other resources .
There was good reason for Gen. Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time .
Communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their activities and the great flood of the Mekong River has interposed a new crisis .
South Viet Nam's rice surplus for next year -- more than 300,000 tons -- may have been destroyed .
The Viet Cong , the Communist rebels , may have lost their stored grain and arms factories .
The rebels may try to seize what is left of the October harvest when the floods recede and the monsoon ends in November .
Nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of United States soldiers for other than instructional missions .
The Indochina struggle was a war to stay out of in 1954 , when Gen. Ridgway estimated it would take a minimum of 10 to 15 divisions at the outset to win a war the French were losing .
It is a war to stay out of today , especially in view of the fact that President Ngo Dinh Diem apparently does not want United States troops .
South Viet Nam has received $1,450,000,000 in United States aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance has been stepped up since Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson's visit last May .
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure .
It is probable that his recommendations will be informed and workable , and that they will not lead to involving the United States in an Asian morass .
Gov. John M. Dalton , himself a lawyer and a man of long service in government , spoke with rich background and experience when he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the Missouri General Assembly , or quit accepting fees from individuals and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the government and who are retained , not because of their legal talents , but because of their government influence .
Ambassador Stevenson yesterday described the U.N.'s problem of electing a temporary successor to the late Dag Hammarskjold as `` the gravest crisis the institution has faced '' .
If the decision goes wrong , it may be -- as Mr. Stevenson fears -- `` the first step on the slippery path downhill '' to a U.N. without operational responsibilities and without effective meaning .
The integrity of the office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be , as the Charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the Organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the Organization '' .
In other words , the Secretary General is to be a nonpartisan , international servant , not a political , national one .
He should be , as Dag Hammarskjold certainly was , a citizen of the world .
The United States and its allies have had no objection to this .
What they have objected to is the attempt of the Russians to make use of the tragedy of Dag Hammarskjold's death to turn the entire U.N. staff from the Secretary down into political agents of the respective countries from which they come .
The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them .
Although the United States and the U.S.S.R. have been arguing whether there shall be four , five or six top assistants , the most important element in the situation is not the number of deputies but the manner in which these deputies are to do their work .
If any one of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed .
If they give him advice when he asks it , or if they perform specified duties under his direction , the nature of the U. N. will not of necessity change .
The Secretary General must have , subject to the constitutional direction of the Security Council and the General Assembly , the power to act , to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions .
This is the root issue for which the United States should stand .
What we must have , if the United Nations is to survive , is as nonpolitical , nonpartisan an organization at the top as human beings can make it , subject to no single nation's direction and subservient to no single nation's ambition .
The new City Charter , which should get a Yes vote as Question No. 1 on Nov. 7 , would not make a good Mayor out of a bad one .
But it would greatly strengthen any Mayor's executive powers , remove the excuse in large degree that he is a captive of inaction in the Board of Estimate , increase his budget-making authority both as to expense and capital budgets , and vest in him the right to reorganize city departments in the interest of efficiency and economy .
Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor .
He loses now-misplaced tax collection duties , which go to the Finance Department .
On net balance , in spite of Controller Gerosa's opposition to the new Charter as an invasion of his office , the Controller will have the opportunity for greater usefulness to good government than he has now .
Borough Presidents , while retaining membership in the Board of Estimate , lose their housekeeping functions .
Highways go to a new Department of Highways , sewers to the Department of Public Works , such street cleaning as Borough Presidents now do ( in Queens and Richmond ) to the Sanitation Department .
Enlargement of the City Council and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow .
The Inter-american Press Association , which blankets the Western Hemisphere from northern Canada to Cape Horn , is meeting in New York City this week for the first time in eleven years .
The I. A. P. A. is a reflection of the problems and hopes of the hemisphere ; ;
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime , more and more Cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile .
The I. A. P. A. found itself driven from journalism into politics as it did its best to bring about the downfall of the Castro Government and the return of the Cuban press to the freedom it knew before Batista's dictatorship began in 1952 .
This , in more diplomatic language , is what Adlai Stevenson told the newspaper men of Latin America yesterday on behalf of the United States Government .
He sees evidence of fair winds for the ten-year Alliance for Progress plan with its emphasis on social reforms .
No group can contribute more to the success of the program than the editors and publishers of the Inter-American Press Association .
The Twenty-second Soviet Communist Party Congress opens in Moscow today in a situation contrasting sharply with the script prepared many months ago when this meeting was first announced .
According to the original program , Premier Khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the Kremlin this morning to be filled with admiration or rage -- depending upon individual or national politics -- because of the `` bold program for building communism in our time '' which the Congress will adopt .
But far from being concerned about whether or not Russia will have achieved Utopia by 1980 , the world is watching Moscow today primarily for clues as to whether or not there will be nuclear Armageddon in the immediate future .
The evident contradiction between the rosy picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered .
This Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness remove him from the scene in the next few years .
The widespread purge that has taken place the past twelve months or so among Communist leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who will dominate the Congress , and the Central Committee it will elect , will all have passed the tightest possible Khrushchev screening , both for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job .
Dr. James B. Conant has earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer .
Now , a close look at the schools in and around the ten largest cities , including New York , has shattered this optimism .
His new book , entitled `` Slums And Suburbs '' , calls for fast and drastic action to avert disaster .
There is room for disagreement concerning some of Dr. Conant's specific views .
His strong opposition to the transfer of Negro children to schools outside their own neighborhood , in the interest of integration , will be attacked by Negro leaders who have fought for , and achieved , this open or permissive enrollment .
The villains of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters , and Dr. Conant accuses employers and labor unions alike .
He was delighted to learn that the Post Office Department is now going to expand this service to deliver mail from Representatives in Congress to their constituents without the use of stamps , names , addresses or even zone numbers .
In accordance with legislation passed at the last session of Congress , each Representative is authorized to deliver to the Post Office in bulk newsletters , speeches and other literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district .
This did not happen in counties of North Georgia , where the rivers run and make rich the bottom land .
Nor in South Georgia , where the summer sun shines warmly and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields .
This happened in Decatur , DeKalb County , not 10 miles from the heart of metropolitian Atlanta .
And now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the DeKalb County cannery .
O. N. Moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say .
He did say he was out of cans , the No. 3's , but `` I requisitioned 22,000 '' .
A three-man committee has recommended to Commission Chairman Charles O. Emmerich that the DeKalb County cannery be closed .
`` The cannery '' , said Mrs. Lewellyn Lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer .
Forgiveness is the door through which a person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God .
Henry Van Dyke said , `` Forgive and forget if you can ; ;
`` For if ye forgive men their trespasses , your heavenly Father will also forgive you : but if ye forgive not men their trespasses , neither will your Father forgive -- your trespasses '' .
Then , Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited .
In the prayer Jesus taught his disciples to pray we find these words , `` Forgive us our debts '' .
Once Peter asked , `` How oft shall my brother sin against me , and I forgive him ? ?
For a while there was such shrill girlish commotion I couldn't have made myself heard if I'd had the equivalent of the message to Garcia .
She asked if I had other advice and , heady with success , I rushed it in , I hope not too late .
I do not know Dr. Wilson Sneed well .
But I was deeply moved by his letter of resignation as rector of St. Luke's Church in Atlanta .
And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' .
His very honest act called up the recent talk I had with another minister , a modest Methodist , who said : `` I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love and comfort to other men , and I would have it no other way : and it is unworthy to think of self .
Mr. Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at Loon Lake .
This year , on a night cool with the front of September moving in , but with plenty of summer still about , the Podgers were holding a neighborhood gathering in the Pod .
In the midst of it all , Mr. Podger came out on the Pod porch , alone .
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound , but the question stayed in Mr. Podger's mind .
Here , in the cool , autumn-touched evening , Mr. Podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly contented and at peace .
Walking along the lake before breakfast , Mr. Podger had seen the feather , and the bird that had lost it in flight .
All day long Mr. Podger , who was a straw-hat man in the summer , had worn the feather in the band of his broad-brimmed sunshield .
It was doing very well , too , having reached the center , and was pursuing its way with commendable singleness of purpose when Mr. Podger saw hazard approaching in the shape of a flashy little sports car .
Taking off his hat and signaling the driver with it , Mr. Podger stepped into the road , lifted the surprised turtle and consummated its road-crossing with what must have been a breath-taking suddenness .
But Mr. Podger and the driver of the sports car waved at each other .
Here in the cool darkness Mr. Podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight .
The three would never meet again , but for some reason or other Mr. Podger was sure he would always remember the incident .
As he pulled the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon , Mr. Podger saw that thin , attractive , freckled little face again , and hoped that the boy , too , was lying in a cool , fringed-wrapped quiet .
She remarked that she found the night wind a little chilly , and Mr. Podger took her inside the fringe .
Mr. Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and Pam burst out .
Mr. Podger opened his cocoon and emerged , tucking Alacrity under his arm to bring her in by the fire .
Desegregation is beginning in two more important Southern cities -- Dallas and Atlanta .
The two cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation .
Even better , they have the examples of Nashville and Houston to hold up as peaceful and progressive programs .
In Houston , there were a few incidents of friction between whites and Negroes , none of which were serious .
The Nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South .
The program has worked well in both Nashville and Houston .
It met a serious rebuff in New Orleans , where the two schools selected for the first moves toward integration were boycotted by white parents .
Another attempt will be made this year in New Orleans to resume the program .
This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions which prevailed several years ago , when a series of bombings was directed against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods of Dallas .
They insist they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in Alabama when the Freedom Riders sought to break down racial discrimination in local bus depots .
Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a few months ago , I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship .
Played mostly on the freeways around Los Angeles , it goes like this :
A driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in Lane A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead .
Traffic in the next lane appears to be moving more smoothly so he pokes a tentative fender into Lane B , which is heavily populated by cars also moving at 70 m.p.h. .
The adjacent driver in Lane B has three choices open to him .
He can ( 1 ) point his car resolutely at the invading fender and force the other driver back into Lane A ; ;
This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways , however , does an injustice to Southern California drivers .
At the risk of losing my charge-a-plate at Marshall Field and Company , I would like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype .
After three months of research , I can state unequivocally that Los Angeles drivers are considerably more courteous and competent than any other drivers I've ever encountered .
During one recent day of driving about Los Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street .
Miami , Fla. , March 17 .
An out-of-town writer came up to Paul Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year .
`` It's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of Nevada , than it is to increase the population of New York city '' .
`` Now , if I can just figure out what he's talking about , I'll use it '' .
This was just Richard's way of saying that last year the Birds opened spring training with a lot of jobs wide open .
Obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the American League , it will have to show improvement someplace .
It's the same with Ron Hansen and Jim Gentile .
I have a hunch Marv Breeding might move up a notch .
`` From Triandos , Brandt and Walker '' , answers Richards .
Hank Foiles , backed up by Frank House who will be within calling distance in the minors , make up better second line catching than the Birds had all last year , but Gus is still that big man you need when you start talking pennant .
When he came to Baltimore , he was leaving a team which was supposed to win the National League pennant , and he was joining what seemed to be a second division American League club .
So , if the Orioles are to improve , Brandt , Triandos and Walker will have to do it .
Of course , this isn't taking into consideration the population of Nevada and New York city , but it's the way things look from here at this point .
`` One thing I notice which I have seldom heard mentioned .
`` Dear Doctors : We learned this year that our older son , Daniel , is autistic .
`` I try to treat Daniel as if he were normal , though of course I realize he is far from that at present .
The twirled , stylized design of winding stems and floral forms strongly suggests the embroidered patterns used so extensively for upholstery during the Jacobean period in England .
For a particularly fabulous room which houses a collection of fine English Chippendale furniture , fabric wall panels were embroidered with a typically Chinese-inspired design of this revered Eighteenth Century period .
Their meeting at San Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California Democratic Council directorate .
-- Plans for a dramatic , broad-scale party rally in Los Angeles next December that would enlist top-drawer Democrats from all over the country .
-- Arrangements for a statewide pre-primary endorsing convention in Fresno next Jan. 26-28 .
At the head of the CDC is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , Thomas B. Carvey Jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon missiles .
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every `` volunteer '' Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to the Aj .
Moreover , the entire state Democratic hierarchy , from Gov. Brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
Carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase CDC membership .
Biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up CDC units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory .
Paradoxically the council is weakest in areas that register 4- and 5-to-1 in the party's favor , strongest where Democrats and Republicans compete on a fairly even basis .
Like most Democratic spokesmen , Carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
In all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for Congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
This bodes heated contests in several districts where claims have already been staked out by Democratic hopefuls who don't see eye-to-eye with the Aj .
Shunted aside by the rampant organizers for John F. Kennedy last year , who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential campaign , the CDC plainly intends to provide the party's campaign muscle in 1962 .
There is evidence that it will be happily received by Gov. Brown and the other constitutional incumbents .
Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's most formidable foe , with ex-Gov. Knight a close second .
In his CDC work , Carvey has the close-in support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists : former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren , who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk .
( Significantly , bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle that saw Mosk moving into the national committee post over Ziffren are still audible in party circles .
note : We've just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention Wednesday night in South Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg. , which graphically illustrates the CDC's broad appeal .
State Sen. Dick Richards will keynote ; ;
It works with English , Russian , German , Hungarian or almost any other foreign tongue .
For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated Dr. Freud , Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
President Kennedy's latest warning to the Communist world that the United States will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the Iron Curtain .
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England :
`` President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
The West Berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the United States to justify its arms drive '' .
The Soviet news agency TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe :
`` President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American munitions industry .
When the stock exchange opened this morning , many dealers were quick to purchase shares in Douglas , Lockheed and United Aircraft and prices rose substantially .
TASS datelined Los Angeles , in English to Europe :
`` Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
He also demanded that Kennedy take additional measures to increase international tension : specifically to crush the Cuban revolution , resume nuclear testing , resist more vigorously admission of China to its lawful seat in the United Nations , and postpone non-military programs at home '' .
TASS from Moscow in English to Europe :
`` The American press clamored for many days promising President Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems confronting the United States .
If there were no West Berlin problem , imperialist quarters would have invented an excuse for stepping up the armaments race to try to solve the internal and external problems besetting the United States and its NATO partners .
Moscow Radio in Russian to the USSR :
`` The U.S. President has shown once again that the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis to justify the armaments race .
As was to be expected Kennedy's latest speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in Bonn , where officials of the West German government praised it '' .
Moscow Novosti article in Russian , datelined London :
`` U.S. pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status of West Berlin has reached its apogee .
The present attempts of the politicians to contaminate ordinary Britons shows that this British common sense is unwilling to pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures '' .
East Berlin ( Communist ) radio in German to Germany :
Kennedy knows the West will not wage war for West Berlin , neither conventional nor nuclear , and negotiations will come as certainly as the peace treaty .
Whenever some Washington circles were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the Pentagon and in Bonn .
In Kennedy's speech are cross currents , sensible ones and senseless ones , reflecting the great struggle of opinions between the President's advisers and the political and economic forces behind them .
Well , dear listeners , despite all the shouting , there will be no war over West Berlin '' .
Moscow TASS in Russian datelined Sochi :
`` Chairman Khrushchev received the U.S. President's disarmament adviser , John McCloy .
The `` West Berlin '' crisis is really an East Berlin crisis .
The crisis was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin ( Wall Street ) and the Red Army ( Pentagon ) egged on by the West Germans ( East Germans ) .
The reason was to speed up domestic production in the USSR , which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power , and try to end the permanent recession in Russian living standards .
Chairman Khrushchev ( Kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .
His advisers in the Politburo ( White House ) are engaged in a great struggle of opinions , so he is not always consistent .
The Soviet Union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin , and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies .
The West has no intention of attacking Russia .
Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy had a terrible row at Sochi .
Aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded the Pennsylvania Gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening Post .
The country was now full of Gazettes and Samuel C. Atkinson and Charles Alexander , who had just taken over Franklin's old paper , desired a more distinctive name .
When founded by Franklin the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
But during the second half of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 Cyrus H. K. Curtis purchased it -- `` paper , type , and all '' -- for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and initialed miscellany , and with only some 2,000 subscribers .
Little more than a fine old name , valuable principally because of the Franklin tradition , the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive .
`` Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me floating down the Nile '' ? ?
`` Remember the night Will Rogers filled a tooth for me between numbers '' ? ?
`` Sure , we met a barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're young , beautiful and the toast of two continents '' `` Remember Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road '' ? ?
All this remembering took place the other night when I had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club .
A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater , N.Y. .
But watching Mrs. Cyril Ring , Berniece Dalton Janssen , Mrs. Robert Jarvis , Mrs. Walter Adams order low-calorie seafood , no bread , I could see the Ziegfeld Girls of 1920 were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961 .
I was anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way .
All I could remember was Billie Dove pasted over the ceiling of my big brother's room .
Exclaimed Vera Forbes Adams , batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed glasses .
Some day we might see a Federation of Prison and Jail Inmates , with a leader busily trying to organize reformatory occupants , defendants out on bail , convicts opposed to probation officers , etc. .
Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant .
The death of Harold A. Stevens , oldest of the Stevens brothers , famed operators of baseball , football and race track concessions , revived again the story of one of the greatest business successes in history .
Harold , with brothers Frank , Joe and William , took over at the death of their father , Harry M. Stevens , who put a few dollars into a baseball program , introduced the `` hot dog '' and paved the way for creation of a catering empire .
Rembrandt's `` Aristotle Contemplating Bust of Homer '' brought $2,300,000 at auction the other night .
Both Aristotle and Homer may in spirit be contemplating `` bust '' of the old-fashioned American dollar .
`` Wagon Train '' is reported the No. 1 TV show .
Lucius Beebe's book , `` Mr. Pullman's Elegant Palace Car '' , fills us with nostalgia , recalling days when private cars and Pullmans were extra wonderful , with fine woodwork , craftsmanship in construction , deep carpets and durable upholstery .
-- Rep. Frelinghuysen , R-5th Dist. , had a special reason for attending the reception at the Korean Embassy for Gen. Chung Hee Park , the new leader of South Korea .
Not only is Mr. Frelinghuysen a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental in opening relations between the United States and Korea , Frederick T. Frelinghuysen , Secretary of State in the administration of Chester A. Arthur .
In addition Rep. Frelinghuysen's brother Harry was on the Korean desk of the State Department in World War 2 .
Next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of the treaty between Korea and the United States and experts in Seoul are trying to find the correspondence between Frederick Frelinghuysen , who was Secretary of State in 1883 and 1884 , and Gen. Lucius Foote , who was the first minister to Korea .
They enlisted the help of the New Jersey congressman , who has been able to trace the letters to the national archives , where they are available on microfilm .
A top official of the New Frontier who kept a record of his first weeks on the job here gives this report of his experiences :
Sen. Case Aj , has received a nice `` thank you '' note from a youngster he appointed to the Air Force Academy in Colorado .
He invited Mr. Case to stop by to say hello if he ever visited the academy and then added that he was on the managerial staff of the freshman football team
`` We have just returned from Roswell , N.M. , where we were defeated , 34 to 9 '' , the young man noted .
Kind Mr. Sam
Among the many stories about the late Speaker Rayburn is one from Rep. Dwyer , R-6th Dist. .
Mrs. Dwyer's husband , M. Joseph Dwyer , was taking a 10-year-old boy from Union County on the tour of the Capitol during the final weeks of the last session .
They ran across Mr. Rayburn and the youngster expressed a desire to get the Speaker's autograph .
Mr. Dwyer said that although it was obvious that Mr. Rayburn was not well he stopped , gave the youngster his autograph , asked where he was from and expressed the hope that he would enjoy his visit to Congress .
Two days later Mr. Rayburn left Washington for the last time .
The 350th anniversary of the King James Bible is being celebrated simultaneously with the publishing today of the New Testament , the first part of the New English Bible , undertaken as a new translation of the Scriptures into contemporary English .
Since it was issued in the spring of 1611 , the King James Version has been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations of the Bible .
This resulted in revisions of the King James Bible in 1881-85 as the English Revised Version and in 1901 as the American Standard Version .
Then in 1937 America's International Council of Religious Education authorized a new revision , in the light of expanded knowledge of ancient manuscripts and languages .
Undertaken by 32 American scholars , under the chairmanship of Rev. Dr. Luther A. Weigle , former dean of Yale University Divinity School , their studies resulted in the publishing of the Revised Standard Version , 1946-52 .
The New English Bible ( the Old Testament and Apocrypha will be published at a future date ) has not been planned to rival or replace the King James Version , but , as its cover states , it is offered `` simply as the Bible to all those who will use it in reading , teaching , or worship '' .
If this new Bible does not increase in significance by repeated readings throughout the years , it will not survive the ages as has the King James Version .
However , an initial perusal and comparison of some of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to speak well of the efforts of the British Biblical scholars .
One is impressed with the dignity , clarity and beauty of this new translation into contemporary English , and there is no doubt that the meaning of the Bible is more easily understandable to the general reader in contemporary language in the frequently archaic words and phrases of the King James .
For example , in the third chapter of Matthew , verses 13-16 , describing the baptism of Jesus , the 1611 version reads :
`` Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John , to be baptized of him .
`` But John forbad him , saying , I have need to be baptized of thee , and comest thou to me ? ?
`` And Jesus answering said unto him , Suffer it to be so now : for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness .
`` And Jesus , when he was baptized went up straightway out of the water : and lo , the heavens were opened unto him , and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove , and lighting upon him '' .
Certainly , the meaning is clearer to one who is not familiar with Biblical teachings , in the New English Bible which reads : `` Then Jesus arrived at Jordan from Galilee , and he came to John to be baptized by him .
Among the most frequently quoted Biblical sentences are the Beatitudes and yet so few persons , other than scholars , really understand the true meaning of these eight blessings uttered by Jesus at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount .
To illustrate , the first blessing in the King James Bible reads : `` Blessed are the poor in spirit ; ;
Some of the poetic cadence of the older version certainly is lost in the newer one , but almost anyone , with a fair knowledge of the English language , can understand the meaning , without the necessity of interpretation by a Biblical scholar .
In the second and third chapters of Revelation the new version retains , however , the old phrase `` angel of the church '' which Biblical scholars have previously interpreted as meaning bishop .
Discoveries recently made of old Biblical manuscripts in Hebrew and Greek and other ancient writings , some by the early church fathers , in themselves called for a restudy of the Bible .
The New Testament offered to the public today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up of representatives of the Church of England , Church of Scotland , Methodist Church , Congregational Union , Baptist Union , Presbyterian Church of England , Churches in Wales , Churches in Ireland , Society of Friends , British and Foreign Bible Society and National Society of Scotland .
Prof. C. H. Dodd , 76 , a Congregational minister and a leading authority on the New Testament , is general director of the project and chairman of the New Testament panel .
In a brighter nautical vein is Ille De France blue .
An electric toothbrush ( Broxodent ) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the American bathroom .
In addition , the motor has the seal of approval of the Underwriters Laboratories , which means it is safe .
There's more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before , although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's first experiment in recorded sound .
For sheer ambition , take the Decca series titled modestly `` Wisdom '' .
Volumes One and Two , selected from the sound tracks of a television series , contain `` conversations with the elder wise men of our day '' .
These sages include poet Carl Sandburg , statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor Jacques Lipchitz , in Volume One , and playwright Sean O'Casey , David Ben-Gurion , philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank Lloyd Wright in the second set .
Hugh Downs is heard interviewing Wright , for an added prestige fillip .
There's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover Publications .
Dover `` publishes '' what the company calls `` Listen And Learn '' Productions designed to teach foreign languages .
Previous presentations have been on French , Spanish , Russian , Italian , German and Japanese .
But the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the `` smaller , less-traveled and relatively inexpensive countries '' , and is now prepared to teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings .
Thanks to Spoken Arts Records , history buffs may hear Lincoln's `` most memorable speeches and letters '' in a two-disc set , interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P. Basler .
As a contemporary bonus , the set includes Carl Sandburg's address at a joint session of Congress , delivered on Lincoln's birthday two years ago .
For those who `` like poetry but never get around to reading it '' , the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work .
The program was instituted in 1940 , and releases are available only from the Recording Laboratory of the Library of Congress , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Newest on the list are John Ciardi , W. D. Snodgrass , I. A. Richards , Oscar Williams , Robert Hillyer , John Hall Wheelock , Stephen Vincent Benet , Edwin Muir , John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim .
RCA Victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called `` Adventures In Music '' , which is an instructional record library for elementary schools .
Howard Mitchell and the National Symphony perform in the first two releases , designed for grades one and two .
In an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future , Herbert A. Leggett , banker-editor of the Phoenix `` Arizona Progress '' , reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties .
This is the period during the melancholy days of autumn when universities and colleges schedule what they call `` Homecoming Day '' .
More often than not , as the Old Grad wanders along the old paths , his memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside him becomes an ache and a pain .
After all , when one has asked whatever became of old Joe and Charlie when one has inquired who it was Sue Brown married and where it is they now live when questions are asked and answered about families and children , and old professors when the game and its probable outcome has been exhausted that does it .
Since the obvious is not always true , the Republican National Committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that it occurred , as suspected , in the larger cities .
Of 40 cities with populations of 300,000 and more , Mr. Kennedy carried 26 and Mr. Nixon 14 .
These are New York , Pennsylvania , Michigan , Maryland , Missouri , New Jersey , Illinois and Minnesota .
In 1952 Mr. Eisenhower won all but Missouri .
Yet , in 1960 all eight gave majorities to Mr. Kennedy .
His visit to Warsaw , Poland , after the Russian journey in the summer of 1959 was expected to win the Polish vote which , in several cities , is substantial .
Yet , the GOP breakdown discovered that in Philadelphia Mr. Nixon received but 21 per cent of the so-called `` Polish '' vote ; ;
The task force might make a start in Washington with Republican congressional leaders .
These gentlemen already have done the party harm by their seeming reluctance to vote aid for the depressed areas and by their criticism of Mr. Kennedy for talking about a recession and unemployment .
They did not view the tour of the distressed cities and towns by Secretary of Labor Goldberg as politics , which the GOP declared it to be .
Senator Mundt's gross distortion of President Eisenhower's conversation into a denunciation of President Kennedy as too left wing , a statement Mr. Eisenhower declared to be entirely false , is another case in point .
If the Republicans and Southern Democrats join to defeat medical care for the old under the Social Security program , they will thereby erect still another barrier to GOP hopes in the cities .
The present Republican leadership as practiced by Mundt , Goldwater , Bridges , Dirksen , et al , is repeating the errors of the party leadership of the 1930s .
In that decade the partisan zeal to defend Mr. Hoover , and the party's failure to anticipate or cope with the depression , caused a great majority of Americans to see the Republican party as cold and lacking in any sympathy for the problems of human beings caught up in the distress and suffering brought on by the economic crash .
But it is in the process of so doing because it apparently gives priority to trying to downgrade John F. Kennedy .
The most articulate Republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at Mr. Kennedy , already have created the image of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
The 1962 General Assembly has important business to consider .
After the Griffin-Byrd political troup has completed the circuit in November in the name of a Pre-Legislative Forum , this is going to be the most politically oriented Legislature in history .
Every legislator from Brasstown Bald to Folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny as a test of his political allegiances , not his convictions .
How unpartisan will be the recommendations of Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's Senate Committee on Government Operations ? ?
But when former Gov. Marvin Griffin and Lt. Gov. Byrd accepted the invitations of the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce to join the tour next November , the situation was aggravated .
The Georgia State Chamber of Commerce tried to guard against the danger of eliminating potential candidates .
It wanted the State Democratic Executive Committee to pick the `` serious candidates '' .
But State Party Chairman James Gray of Albany said no , and he didn't mince any words .
Griffin's Rural Roads Authority and Byrd's 60,000 miles of county contracts would look like pauper's oaths .
Former British Prime Minister Attlee says Eisenhower was not a `` great soldier '' .
Ike's somewhat like George Washington .
Congressmen returning from recess say the people admire President Kennedy so much , they're even willing to heed his call to sacrifice -- and give up his program .
Slogan of the John Birch Society : `` Paddle your own canoe .
A Republican survey says Kennedy won the '60 election on the religious issue .
The Providence Journal editorial ( Jan. 25 ) entitled `` East Greenwich Faces A Housing Development Problem '' points to a dilemma that faces communities such as ours .
First of all there is ample area in East Greenwich already zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested .
The 1960 tax book for East Greenwich indicates a valuation for this property in excess of two million dollars .
Mr. Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , in his remarks to the Governors Conference on Industrial Development at Providence on October 8 , 1960 , warned against the fallacy of attempting to attract industry solely to reduce the tax rate or to underwrite municipal services such as schools when he said : `` If this is the fundamental reason for a community's interest or if this is the basic approach , success if any will be difficult to obtain '' .
While Councilman Olson cited the anticipated increase in school costs in answer to a direct question from a taxpayer , the impact upon a school system does not have to be measured only in increased taxes to find alarm in uncontrolled growth .
We in East Greenwich have the example of two neighboring communities , one currently utilizing double sessions in their schools , and the other facing this prospect next year .
It has already been reported in your newspapers that the East Greenwich School Committee is considering additions to at least one elementary school and to the high school to insure future accommodations for a school population that we know will increase .
The `` fruitful course '' of metropolitanization that you recommend is currently practiced by the town of East Greenwich and had its inception long before we learned what it was called .
The East Greenwich Police Department utilizes the radio transmission facilities of the Warwick Police Department , thereby eliminating duplication of facilities and ensuring police coordination in the Cowessett-East Greenwich-Potowomut area of the two communities .
The East Greenwich Fire District services parts of Warwick as well as East Greenwich .
The taxpayers of East Greenwich appropriate sums of money , as do other Kent County communities , for the support of the Kent County Memorial Hospital , a regional facility .
The East Greenwich Free Library receives financial support from the town of East Greenwich and the City of Warwick to supplement its endowment .
Feelers were put out last year to the City of Warwick , as reported in your newspapers , suggesting investigation of a common rubbish disposal area to service the Potowomut and Cowessett areas of Warwick along with East Greenwich .
East Greenwich was one of the first Rhode Island towns to enter into contract agreement with the Rhode Island Development Council for planning services we could not provide for ourselves .
The education program for retarded children conducted by the East Greenwich school system has pupils from at least one neighboring community .
I feel compelled to write this because I am greatly concerned with the problem of community growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town such as East Greenwich .
Until professional planners meet this situation squarely and update the concepts of zoning in a manner acceptable to the courts , I hope we in East Greenwich can continue to shape our own destiny .
I would like very much , on behalf of my husband and myself , to send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the Gabrielle Fund .
It is indeed true , as stated in the famous novel of our day , `` For Whom The Bell Tolls '' , that `` no man is an island , entirely of itself ; ;
Thanks to the generosity of Mr. Irving J. Fain , president of the Temple Beth El ; ;
Rev. DeWitt Clemens , pastor of the Mathewson Street Methodist Church ; ;
Mr. Felix Miranda , of the Imperial Knife Co. ; ;
and to Mrs. Rozella Switzer , regional director of The National Conference of Christians and Jews , who asked them to serve as a committee for the fund .
I am a sophomore at Mount Pleasant High School .
A few weeks ago , I read in the Bulletin that there were to be given Chinese classes in Cranston .
The following week , I read in the Sunday paper that the students of Russia begin European and Asian languages in the seventh grade .
If Russian pupils have to take these languages , how come American students have a choice whether or not to take a language , but have to face so many exceptions ? ?
I do not think that America is like Russia , not in the least ! !
Then people wonder why Russian pupils are more advanced than American students .
However , the East Providence Rescue Squad made its way through to my home in time of desperation .
The concern they felt for me was such as I shall never forget and for which I will always be grateful .
The Providence Sunday Journal article ( Jan. 29 ) asking whether American taxpayers are being victimized by a gigantic giveaway to pay for the care of war veterans who have non-service-connected disabilities sounds as though The Providence Journal is desperate for news .
On the question of admission to Veterans Administration hospitals of service-connected and non-service-connected disabled veterans , it must be recognized that there are many men who are greatly affected by war service .
There is one other point we should never lose sight of : Many veterans who enter VA hospitals as non-service cases later qualify as service-connected .
The American public must be presented with the facts concerning VA hospitalization .
The American Medical Association is once again grinding out its tear-soaked propaganda based upon the high cost of the Veterans Administration medical program to the American taxpayer .
-- No doubt there have been moments during every Presidency when the man in the White House has had feelings of frustration , exasperation , exhaustion , and even panic .
But no President ever before referred to his as a `` lousy job '' ( as Walter Trohan recently quoted President Kennedy as doing in conversation with Sen. Barry Goldwater ) .
During his aggressive campaign to win his present position , Mr. Kennedy was vitriolic about this country's `` prestige '' abroad .
If the President of the United States really feels he won himself a `` lousy job '' , then heaven help us all .
Evansville , Ind. , Aug. 5
-- Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara has asked Congress for authority and funds to build fallout shelters costing about 200 million dollars .
Upon a visit to a local junior college last week , I was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts and the young men wearing Bermuda shorts .
-- The granting of the Jan Masaryk award August 13 to Senator Paul Douglas is a bitter example of misleading minorities .
Douglas has consistently voted to aid the people who killed Masaryk , and against principles Masaryk died to uphold .
Oak Park , Aug. 8
-- In Today's `` Voice '' , the CTA is urged to reduce fares for senior citizens .
-- In reply to a letter in Today's `` Voice '' urging the sale of meat after 6 p.m. , I wish to state the other side of the story .
The Legion Convention and Sidney Holzman
-- I , too , congratulate the American Legion , of which I am proud to have been a member for more than 40 years , on the recent state convention .
I regret that Bertha Madeira ( Today's `` Voice '' ) obtained incorrect information .
At no time did I attempt to seek approval or commendation for the members of the Chicago board of election commissioners for the discharge of their duties .
-- The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children wishes to commend the recent announcement by the Catholic charities of the archdiocese of Chicago and DePaul University of the establishment of the Institute for Special Education at the university for the training of teachers for physically handicapped and mentally retarded children .
The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children , which for 20 years has had the responsibility of coordinating the services of tax supported and voluntary organizations serving handicapped children , of studying the needs of handicapped children in Illinois , and of promoting more adequate services for them , indeed welcomes this new important resource which will help the people of Illinois toward the goal of providing an education for all of its children .
From Candlelight Club
-- I just want to let you know how much I enjoyed your June 25 article on Liberace , and to thank you for it .
Engineering graduates of Illinois Institute of Technology are reported receiving the highest average starting salaries in the school's history -- $550 a month .
-- Your July 26 editorial regarding the position of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy on prospective tax relief for DuPont stockholders is based on an erroneous statement of fact .
As a result , your criticism of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and the Department of Justice was inaccurate , unwarranted and unfair .
The editorial concerned legislative proposals to ease the tax burden on DuPont stockholders , in connection with the United States Supreme Court ruling that DuPont must divest itself of its extensive General Motors stock holdings .
Congressman Wilbur D. Mills , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , asked the Department of Justice for its views on these legislative proposals as they related to anti-trust law enforcement .
The Attorney General responded by letter dated July 19 .
In this letter , Mr. Kennedy made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration -- what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust judgments .
There are a number of other considerations besides this one but it is for the Congress , not the Department of Justice , to balance these various considerations and make a judgment about legislation .
Yet your editorial said : `` Now the Attorney General writes that no considerations ' justify any loss of revenue of this proportion ' '' .
What Mr. Kennedy , in fact , wrote was : `` It is the Department's view that no anti-trust enforcement considerations justify any loss of revenue of this proportion '' .
The editorial , by omitting the words anti-trust enforcement , totally distorted Mr. Kennedy's views .
-- I concur most heartily with today's letter on the futility of writing to Sen. Dirksen and Sen. Douglas .
But when you write to Congresswoman Church , bless her heart , your letter is answered fully and completely .
Downers Grove , Aug. 8
-- A recent news story reported that Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin delayed 103 airplane passengers 10 minutes in London while they finished their drinks .
The plane should have started at the scheduled time and left Sinatra and Martin to guzzle .
Sir -- We are writing in reference to a recent `` suggestion '' made to the staff of the Public Health Nursing Service of Jersey City ( registered professional nurses with college background and varying experiences ) .
The day before Election Day , to which we are entitled as a legal holiday , we were informed to report to our respective polls to work as `` workers of the party '' .
We , therefore , considered the `` suggestion '' an insult to our intelligence , ethics , Bill of Rights , etc. .
This is our duty -- not as nurses or city employes -- but as citizens of the United States .
Sir -- When the colonies decided upon freedom from England , we insisted , through the Declaration of Independence , that the nations of the world recognize us as a separate political entity .
It is high time the United States began to realize that the God-given rights of men set forth in that document are applicable today to Katanga .
In the United Nations Charter , the right of self-determination is also an essential principle .
The people of Katanga had fought for , and obtained , their freedom from the Communist yoke of Antoine Gizenga , and his cohorts .
The United States and the U.N. denounce their own principles when they defend the Communist oppressors and refuse to acknowledge the right of self-determination of the Katangans .
The bill which passed the Assembly last May and is now pending in the Senate should be given careful scrutiny .
Sir -- Your editorial , `` Housing Speedup '' , is certainly not the answer to our slum problems .
I once heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in New York , it is listed as `` death due to natural causes '' .
Sir -- Every resident of this city should visit the Newark Museum and see the exhibit `` Our Changing Skyline in Newark '' .
It shows what a beautiful city Newark will become and certainly make every Newarker proud of this city .
Sir -- I hasten to join in praise of the men in the toll booths on the Garden State Parkway .
Recently I traveled the parkway from East Orange to Cape May and I found the most courteous group of men you will find anywhere .
`` Deep Peep Show ''
The viewers of the `` Deep Peep Show '' at 15th and M Streets NW have an added attraction -- the view of a fossilized cypress swamp .
These microfossils indicate the swamp was `` formed during the Lower Cretaceous period when dinosaurs were at their heyday and when the first flowering plants were just appearing .
The 15th Street deposit is not to be confused with the nearby famous Mayflower Hotel cypress swamp on 17th Street reported in The Washington Post , August 2 , 1955 , which was probably formed during the second interglacial period and is therefore much younger .
Recently the secretary of the Friends Committee on National Legislation was interviewed on the air .
While I respect his sincere concern for peace , he made four points that I would like to question .
Lastly , the speaker decried our organized program of emergency help calling it `` Civilian Defense '' .
In 1950 , Public Law 920 created Civil Defense ( different from Civilian-groups of World War 2 ) , a responsibility of the Government at all levels to help reduce loss of life and property in disaster , natural or manmade .
Could Senator Humphrey be serious in his proposal ? ?
The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials are rather bleak .
As an added suggestion to balance the budget , the Government could sell advertising space on the Washington Monument .
It is visible throughout the city , and men from Madison Ave. would jump at the chance .
Sen. Hubert Humphrey is obviously a man with a soul and heart .
Two strong dissents from the majority report of the Joint Economic Committee ( May 2 ) by Senators Proxmire and Butler allege that the New Deal fiscal policy of the Thirties did not work .
to the editor of the New York Times :
The United States and Soviet Russia have enough nuclear weapons to destroy all nations .
President Kennedy was right when he said , `` We shall never negotiate out of fear and we never shall fear to negotiate '' .
I have just returned from a seven-week trip to Europe and the Far East .
It is quite evident that the people of Western Europe are overwhelmingly opposed to participation in a nuclear war .
The fact is that the Italians , French and British know that they have no defense against nuclear bombs .
But there is nothing we can do to stop Soviet Russia from granting de facto recognition to East Germany .
Soviet Russia has been invaded twice by German troops in a generation .
The truth is that Communist Russia fears the resurgence of German militarism .
Actually , the Communists , out of fear of a united and armed Germany , would probably be willing to agree to a disarmed Germany that would be united and neutral and have its independence guaranteed by the U.N. .
If the Communists are sincere in wanting a united , neutral and disarmed Germany , it might well be advantageous for the German people in this nuclear age .
France and other Western European nations likewise fear a rearmed Germany .
If the German people favor such a settlement we should not oppose Germany following the example of Austria .
President Kennedy has urged a peace race on disarmament that might be called `` Operation Survival '' which has many facets .
Why not make a beginning with a united and disarmed Germany whose neutrality and immunity from nuclear bombing would be guaranteed by the Big Four powers and the United States ? ?
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your editorial of Sept. 30 `` The Smoldering Congo '' you make the following comment : `` Far too many states are following the Russian example in refusing to pay their assessments .
I would like to quote from the Charter of the United Nations :
The General Assembly shall consider and approve the budget of the Organization .
The expenses of the Organization shall be borne by the Members as apportioned by the General Assembly .
A Member of the United Nations which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Assembly if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years '' .
But they refuse , as do the Arab states , to support the United Nations' expenses of maintaining the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East as a buffer between Egypt and Israel , and the U.N. troops in the Congo , which expenses are not covered by the regular budget of the United Nations , but by a special budget .
According to the official interpretation of the Charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' United Nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the Organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the Charter for expulsion .
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your Sept. 27 editorial appraisal of the work of the First Session of the Eighty-seventh Congress you referred to the lack of `` consciousness of destiny in a time of acute national and world peril '' .
Yet your list of things left undone did not include repeal of the Connally amendment to this country's domestic jurisdiction reservation to its Adherence to the Statute of the International Court of Justice .
The Connally amendment says that the United States , rather than the court , shall determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of the United States in a case before the World Court to which the United States is a party .
Since the Connally amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other party to a dispute with the United States , it also prevents us from using the court effectively .
Yet although the Kennedy Administration , and the Eisenhower Administration before it , have both declared themselves solidly for repeal of the Connally amendment , as contrary to our best interests , no action has yet been taken .
What better affirmative step could be taken to this end than repeal of the Connally amendment -- an act which could expose the United States to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging attitude toward the court , enable us to utilize it , and advance in a tangible way the cause of international law and order ? ?
We believe that the list of vital things left undone to date by the Eighty-seventh Congress should have included repeal by the Senate of the Connally amendment .
to the editor of the New York Times :
Many home-bound subway riders utilizing the Flushing-Main Street express are daily confronted with the sight of the local departing from the Woodside station as their express comes to a stop , leaving them stranded and strained .
To the tens of thousands who must transfer to ride to Seventy-fourth Street and change for the IND , this takes a daily toll of time and temper .
The Transit Authority has recently placed in operation `` hold '' lights at BMT Thirty-ninth and Fifty-ninth Street stations in Brooklyn .
to the editor of the New York Times :
The funeral for my husband was just what I wanted and I paid a fair price , far less than I had expected to pay .
Recently I visited the very remarkable Pilgrim School for retarded children .
Kiwanis , American Legion and other groups donate small sums and the mothers do what they can to bring in dollars for its support .
The school is located at 9-1/2 Mile Road , Woodward Heights .
I was surprised at Mayor Miriani's defeat , but perhaps Mayor-elect Cavanagh can accomplish some things that should have been done years ago .
At a recent meeting of the Women's Association of the Trumbull Ave. United Presbyterian Church , considerable use was made of material from The Detroit News on the King James version of the New Testament versus the New English Bible .
Some members of the organization called attention also to the article on hymns of inspiration , the Daily Prayer and Three Minutes A Day , as being very helpful .
We feel that The Detroit News is to be complimented upon arranging for articles on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material along wholesome lines .
Thank you for the article by George Sokolsky on the public apathy to impudence .
I commend Senator Hart for his brave fight to establish a national park in the dunes area .
I just wish to congratulate Inspector Trimmer and his efficient police troops in cleaning the city of those horrible automobiles .
Good for Mr. Trimmer .
I worked on the Schuylkill Expressway and if it had not been for the big trucks carrying rock and concrete there wouldn't be an Expressway .
Mr. George Hough ( Oct. 30 ) sounds like a business man who waits until the last minute to leave his home or shop .
I suppose I am missing some elementary point but I honestly cannot see how two wrongs can make a right ! !
Everyone should take time to read Martin Luther's Hymn `` A Mighty Fortress Is Our God '' .
To our everlasting shame , we led the world in this nuclear arms race sixteen years ago when we dropped the first bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki .
Just because Cheddi Jagan , new boss of British Guiana , was educated in the United States is no reason to think he isn't a Red .
Just to remind the Communists that the bombs dropped on Japan were to end a war not start one .
Intelligent people will admit that bombs and rockets of destruction are frightening whether they fall on Japan , London or Pearl Harbor .
That is why the United Nations was formed so that intelligent men with good intentions from all countries could meet and solve problems without resorting to war .
Why aren't the Soviets expelled from the U.N. ? ?
While `` better late than never '' may have certain merits , the posthumous award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to the late Dag Hammarskjold strikes me as less than a satisfactory expression of appreciation .
Had it been bestowed while the Secretary General of the United Nations was living , unquestionably he would have been greatly encouraged in pursuing a difficult and , in many ways , thankless task .
According to one report , however , Mr. Hammarskjold was considered `` too controversial '' a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last spring .
Actually , of course , that label `` controversial '' applied only because he was carrying out the mandate given him by the world organization he headed rather than following the dictates of the Soviet Union .
Just a brief note of appreciation to Vice President Johnson and Pakistani camel driver Bashir Ahmad for providing a first-class example of `` people to people '' good will .
Expressway answer : East River Drive
Your continuing editorials concerning the Schuylkill Expressway are valuable ; ;
They start on the East side of the Schuylkill , have to cross over to the West to use the expressway and cross over again to the East at their destination .
We should avoid these congestion points or , putting it another way , keep cars starting and ending on the East side of the river -- on the East side .
Widen the East River Drive at least one lane .
One additional lane would then be directional with the traffic burden and effectively increase the traffic carrying capability of the East River Drive by fifty percent .
This could be accomplished without the tremendous expenditures necessitated by the Schuylkill Expressway and without destroying the natural beauty of the East River Drive .
Shadow over Washington Square
I wish to advocate two drastic changes in Washington Square : 1 .
Take away George Washington's statue .
It may remind one of Russia , China or East Berlin ; ;
The Fairmount Park Commission will no doubt approve my two proposals , because it is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the Square .
The matter may seem a small thing to some people , I know , but it's a very good start on the road to Totalitarianism The Commission has posted signs in Washington Square saying :
The Feeding of Birds is Prohibited in This square .
Fairmount Park Commission
Does each tentacle of the octopus of City Government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers an annoyance ? ?
If birds don't belong in a Square or Park , what does ? ?
Starlings and blackbirds are scared off by canon , from City Hall .
The City Government is not united in an all-out , to-the-death drive to stamp out gangs , delinquents , thugs , murderers , rapists , subversives .
Let every policeman and park guard keep his eye on John and Jane Doe , lest one piece of bread be placed undetected and one bird survive .
One means to help the birds occurs to me : Let the chimes that ring over Washington Square twice daily , discontinue any piece of music but one .
Let them offer on behalf of those creatures whose melody has been the joy of mankind since time began , the hymn `` Abide With Me '' .
When we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which we know to be right , when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations which do not permit self-determination , when we become strong enough to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own Nation , when we recognize that our enemy is Communism not war , and when we realize that concessions to Communists do not insure peace or freedom , then , and only then will we no longer be `` soft '' .
The new column by Maurice Stans regarding business scandals , is fair and accurate in most respects and his solution to the problem has some merit .
Further , it should be recalled that some very definite steps were taken by Congress to combat corruption in the labor movement by its passage of the Landrum-Griffin Act .
The biggest nuclear device the United States has exploded measured some 15 megatons , although our B-52s are said to be carrying two 20-megaton bombs apiece .
Some time ago , however , Mr. Khrushchev decided that when bigger bombs were made , the Soviet Union would make them .
What is needed , Philip Morrison writes in The Cornell Daily Sun ( October 26 ) is a discontinuity .
`` Only a discontinuity can end it '' , Professor Morrison writes .
Morrison points out that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red China , it is the most vulnerable of the great powers -- Europe of course must be written off out of hand .
He feels , therefore , that to seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the United States is the least risky path our government can take .
His proposal is opposed to that of Richard Nixon , Governor Rockefeller , past chairmen Strauss and McCone of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Edward Teller and those others now enjoying their hour of triumph in the exacerbation of the cold war .
Thus , when the Russians sent up their first sputnik , American chagrin was human enough , and American determination to put American satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable .
When East Germans fled to the West by the thousands , paeans of joy rose from the throats of Western publicists .
They are less vocal now , when it is the West Berliners who are migrating .
Nearly 18 per cent of West Berlin's 2,200,000 residents are sixty-five or older , only 12.8 per cent are under fifteen .
R. H. S. Crossman , M.P. , writing in The Manchester Guardian , states that departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700 , but of 1,700 a week , and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a week .
The weekly loss is partly counterbalanced by 500 arrivals each week from West Germany , but the hard truth , says Crossman , is that `` The closing off of East Berlin without interference from the West and with the use only of East German , as distinct from Russian , troops was a major Communist victory , which dealt West Berlin a deadly , possibly a fatal , blow .
Another piece of evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in The Observer ( London ) .
Mark Arnold-Foster writes : `` People are leaving ( West Berlin ) because they think it is dying .
They are leaving so fast that the president of the West German Employers' Federation issued an appeal this week to factory workers in the West to volunteer for six months' front-line work in factories in West Berlin .
The only hope for West Berlin lies in a compromise which will bring down the wall and reunite the city .
State Department officials refusing to show their passes at the boundary , and driving two blocks into East Berlin under military escort , will not avail .
The materials for compromise are at hand : The Nation , Walter Lippmann and other sober commentators ( see Alan Clark on p. 367 ) have spelled them out again and again .
Or the city can be a graveyard monument to Western intransigence , if that is what the West wants .
The removal of Stalin's body from the mausoleum he shared with Lenin to less distinguished quarters in the Kremlin wall is not unprecedented in history .
A British writer , Richard Haestier , in a book , Dead Men Tell Tales , recalls that in the turmoil preceding the French Revolution the body of Henry 4 , , who had died nearly 180 years earlier , was torn to pieces by a mob .
And in England , after the Restoration , the body of Cromwell was disinterred and hanged at Tyburn .
In 1899 , Parliament erected a statue to Cromwell in Westminster , facing Whitehall and there , presumably , he still stands .
The Lenin tomb is obviously adequate for double occupancy , Moscow is a crowded city , and the creed of Communism deplores waste .
Who will take Stalin's place beside Lenin ? ?
There is Karl Marx , of course , buried in London .
The Macmillan government might be willing to let him go , but he has been dead seventy-eight years and even the Soviet morticians could not make him look presentable .
U Thant of Burma
The appointment of U Thant of Burma as the U.N.'s Acting Secretary General -- at this writing , the choice appears to be certain -- offers further proof that in politics it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential friends .
Mongi Slim of Tunisia and Frederick Boland of Ireland were early favorites in the running , but France didn't like the former and the Soviet Union would have none of the latter .
With the neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed Mr. Hammarskjold , U Thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely to be waylaid by a veto .
In all the bitter in-fighting , the squabbles over election procedures , the complicated numbers game that East and West played on the assistant secretaries' theme , the gentleman from Burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat .
He is a Buddhist , which means that to him peace and the sanctity of human life are not only religious dogma , but a profound and unshakable Weltanschauung .
U Thant of course , will hold office until the spring of 1963 , when Mr. Hammarskjold's term would have come to an end .
the West may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism that U Thant represents .
In a sense , the showdown promised by Mr. Hammarskjold's sudden and tragic death has been avoided ; ;
These are mentalities which crave action -- and they are beginning to get it , as Messrs. Salsich and Engh report on page 372 .
Friends , a picture magazine distributed by Chevrolet dealers , describes a paramilitary organization of employees of the Gulf Telephone Company at Foley , Alabama .
`` If the day should ever come that foreign invaders swarm ashore along the Gulf Coast '' , the account reads , `` they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando-trained telephone employees -- all girls .
Heavily armed and mobilized as a fast-moving Civil Defense outfit , 23 operators and office personnel stand ready to move into action at a minute's notice '' .
According to Friends , the unit was organized by John Snook , a former World War 2 , commando who is vice president and general manager of the telephone company .
If the railroads , for example , regularly slaughtered 25,000 passengers each year , the high priests of the cult would have cause to tremble for their personal safety , for such a holocaust would excite demands for the hanging of every railroad president in the United States .
From next New Year's Day let us keep careful account of each successive fatality on the highways , publicizing it on all media of communication .
The scene , of course , should be nine miles northwest of Centralia , Illinois , the geographical center of population according to the census .
A special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of Illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new African nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is thoroughly civilized .
The band should play the Rogues' March as a processional , switching to `` Hail Columbia , Happy Land '' ! !
Independence Day is the appropriate date as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable rights , the first of which is life , and when any government becomes subversive of that end , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it .
True , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` Home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as Socinianism .
Nonetheless , although few in number they are a stubborn crew , as tenacious of life as the Hardshell Baptists , which suggests that there is some kind of vital principle embodied in their faith .
Perhaps there is more truth than we are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of Tarheelia , Robert Ruark's grandfather , who was persuaded that the great curse of the modern world is `` all this gallivantin' '' .
As the new clouds of radioactive fallout spread silently and invisibly around the earth , the Soviet Union stands guilty of a monstrous crime against the human race .
But the guilt is shared by the United States , Britain and France , the other members of the atomic club .
Until Moscow resumed nuclear testing last September 1 , the US and UK had released more than twice as much radiation into the atmosphere as the Russians , and the fallout from the earlier blasts is still coming down .
So , while we properly inveigh against the new poisoning , history is not likely to justify the pose of righteousness which some in the West were so quick to assume when Mr. Khrushchev made his cynical and irresponsible threat .
On October 19 , after the Soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , Ambassador Stevenson warned the UN General Assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests .
More recently , the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg , `` admitted '' to a news conference in Las Vegas , Nevada , that the US might fall behind Russia ( he apparently meant in weapons development ) if the Soviets continue to test in the atmosphere while we abstain .
On the one hand , the Public Health Service declared as recently as October 26 that present radiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots `` do not warrant undue public concern '' or any action to limit the intake of radioactive substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the Aj .
But the PHS conceded that the new radioactive particles `` will add to the risk of genetic effects in succeeding generations , and possibly to the risk of health damage to some people in the United States '' .
Having hedged its bets in this way , PHS apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination after all : `` At present radiation levels , and even at somewhat higher levels , the additional risk is slight and very few people will be affected '' .
Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry , has been less ambiguous , whether you choose to agree with him or not .
After declaring , in an article last month in Frontier Magazine , that the Russian testing `` carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences of any action in the history of the world '' , he gave this estimate of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new Soviet shots totaled 200 megatons :
Most of these would be in the Northern Hemisphere , where the fallout is concentrating .
An illustration of this attitude is found in John A. McCone's letter to Dr. Thomas Lauritsen , reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of The New Republic .
To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies away from discussing the health aspects of fallout .
A recent study on radiation exposure by the AEC's division of biology and medicine stated : `` The question of the biological effect of ( radiation ) doses is not considered '' herein .
So the Commission's announcements of the new Soviet shots have been confined to one or two bleak sentences , with the fission yield usually left vague .
Now , of course , that the Russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the US was testing in the atmosphere .
Yet if Washington gets too indignant about Soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count .
As of October 25 , the AEC had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of TNT ) ; ;
If the new Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far .
One of the inescapable realities of the Cold War is that it has thrust upon the West a wholly new and historically unique set of moral dilemmas .
When this second dilemma first became obvious -- during the mid to late '50's -- the United States appeared to have three choices .
With the resumption of Soviet testing and their intransigence at the Geneva talks , however , the hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken .
Once again , the United States must choose .
In particular , Governor Nelson Rockefeller has expressed as cogently and clearly as anyone the case for a resumption of atmospheric tests .
Speaking recently in Miami , Governor Rockefeller said that `` to assure the sufficiency of our own weapons in the face of the recent Soviet tests , we are now clearly compelled to conduct our own nuclear tests '' .
Taking account of the fact that such a move on our part would be unpopular in world opinion , he argued that the responsibility of the United States is `` to do , confidently and firmly , not what is popular , but what is right '' .
Besides the lack of an adequate ethical dimension to the Governor's case , one can ask seriously whether our lead over the Russians in quality and quantity of nuclear weapons is so slight as to make the tests absolutely necessary .
Recent statements by the President and Defense Department spokesmen have , to the contrary , assured us that our lead is very great .
Unless the Administration and the Defense Department have been deceiving us , the facts do not support the assertion that we are `` compelled '' to resume atmospheric testing .
when his Holiness Pope John 23 , first called for an Ecumenical Council , and at the same time voiced his yearning for Christian unity , the enthusiasm among Catholic and Protestant ecumenicists was immediate .
The Council we now know will concern itself directly only with the internal affairs of the Church .
First of all , it is now known that Pope John sees the renewal and purification of the Church as an absolutely necessary step toward Christian unity .
Far from being irrelevant to the ecumenical task , the Pontiff believes that a revivified Church is required in order that the whole world may see Catholicism in the best possible light .
Equally significant , Pope John has said that Catholics themselves bear some responsibility for Christian disunity .
A major aim of the Council will be to remove as far as possible whatever in the Church today stands in the way of unity .
Secondly , a whole series of addresses and actions by the Pope and by others show that concern for Christian unity is still very much alive and growing within the Church .
The establishment , by the Holy Father , of a permanent Secretariat for Christian Unity in 1960 was the most dramatic mark of this concern .
The designation of five Catholic theologians to attend the World Council of Churches assembly in New Delhi as `` official '' observers reverses the Church's earlier stand .
The public appeal by the new Vatican Secretary of State , Cardinal Cicognani , for renewed efforts toward Eastern and Western reunion was still another remarkable act .
Nor can one forget Pope John's unprecedented meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury .
Augustin Cardinal Bea , the director of the Secretariate for Christian Unity , has expressed as directly as anyone the new spirit that pervades the Church's stance toward the Protestant and Orthodox Churches .
For discouragement , or the temptation to abandon our efforts , `` would show that one placed excessive trust in purely human means without thinking of the omnipotence of God , the irresistible efficacy of prayer , the action of Christ or the power of the Divine Spirit '' .
We sympathize with Mr. Kennedy , but we feel bound to say that his budget review doesn't please us either , although for very different reasons .
In the first place , a large part of the discrepancy between President Eisenhower's estimate of a 1.5 billion dollar surplus for the same period and the new estimate of an almost seven billion dollar deficit is the result of the outgoing President's farewell gift of a political booby-trap to his successor .
Four billion dollars of the spending increase is for defense , an expenditure necessitated by the penny-wise policies of the Eisenhhower Administration , quite apart from the recent crises in Berlin and elsewhere .
Four hundred million dollars of the increase is for the expanded space program , a responsibility similarly neglected by Mr. Eisenhower .
The farm program will cost an additional 1.5 billion , because of unusual weather factors , the Food for Peace program and other new measures .
And yet Mr. Kennedy persists in trying to mollify the intransigents of the right with apologies and promises of `` tightening up '' and `` economizing '' .
The party that won used to say something about a New Frontier .
introduction of the `` dialogue '' principle proved strikingly effective at the thirty-fourth annual meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace in Washington the last weekend in October .
Two of the principal addresses were delivered by prominent Protestants , and when the speaker was a Catholic , one `` discussant '' on the dais tended to be of another religious persuasion .
Sessions devoted to `` Ethics and Foreign Policy Trends '' , `` Moral Principle and Political Judgment '' , `` Christian Ethics in the Cold War '' and related subjects proved to be much livelier under this procedure than if Catholics were merely talking to themselves .
In the earlier sessions there was plentiful discussion on the natural law , which Dr. William V. O'Brien of Georgetown University , advanced as the basis for widely acceptable ethical judgments on foreign policy .
A Lebanese Moslem told about its existence and application in the Islamic tradition as the `` divine law '' , while a C.A.I.P. member who has been working in close association with delegates of the new U.N. nations told of its widespread recognition on the African continent .
Everywhere I went in Formosa I asked the same question .
I never found it among any of the Chinese with whom I spoke , though granted they were , almost all , members of the official family who , presumably , harbor official thoughts .
And then I put the question as pointedly as I could directly to Chiang Kai-shek : `` In America '' , I said , `` practically no one believes that you subjectively intend to re-enter the Mainland .
I recalled sympathetically the Duke's complaint in Browning's `` My Last Duchess '' .
) He smiled , and said a word or two to the interpreter , who turned to me , `` The President wonders where you are going after you leave Taipei '' ? ?
`` The President says '' , the translator came in , `` that the reason he asked you where you were going is because he hoped you would be visiting other areas in Southeast Asia , and that everywhere you went , you would seek the answer to your question .
For every person on Taiwan , there are sixty in Mainland China .
If the raw population figures are crucially relevant , then it is idle to think of liberation , as idle as to suppose that Poland might liberate Russia .
It is generally conceded that the Formosan air force is the best by far in Asia , and the army the best trained .
Even so , it adds up to impossible odds , except that the question arises , On whose side would the Mainland Chinese army fight ? ?
The psychological strategists in Taiwan stress the great sense of family , cultivated in China over thousands of years .
Leninism-Marxism , as understood by Exegete Mao .
The military in Taiwan believe that the Communists have made two mistakes , which , together , may prove fatal .
Tibet may bleed China as Algeria is bleeding France .
They hope that if history vouchsafes the West another Budapest , we will receive the opportunity gladly .
I remarked jocularly to the President that the future of China would be far more certain if he would invite a planeload of selected American Liberals to Quemoy on an odd day .
But he -- and all of China -- wears the scars of American indecisiveness , and he knows what an uncertain ally we are .
A great deal depends on the crystallization of Mr. Kennedy's views on the world struggle .
The Free Chinese know that the situation on the Mainland is in flux , and are poised to strike .
Now , everyone knows -- or knew in the week of December 10 -- that something had gone shockingly wrong with American foreign policy .
The United States was engaged in a military attack on a peaceful , orderly people governed by a regime that had proved itself the most pro-Western and anti-Communist within any of the new nations -- the only place in Africa , moreover , where a productive relationship between whites and blacks had apparently been achieved .
Of course the fighting was officially under the auspices of the United Nations .
The moment simultaneously revealed that in the crisis our policy ran counter to that of all our NATO allies , to the entire Western community .
It reappears , in whole or part , whenever a new crisis exposes the reality : in Cuba last spring ( with which the Dominican events of last month should be paired ) ; ;
in relation to Laos , Algeria , South Africa ; ;
This prime element of the truth may be stated as follows : Under prevailing policy , the U.S. can take the initiative against the Right , but cannot take the initiative against the Left .
We can attack Tshombe , but not Gigenza .
No matter that Gizenga is Moscow's man in the Congo .
No matter that it is his troops who rape Western women and eat Western men .
No matter that the Katanga operation is strategically insane in terms of Western interests in Africa .
( Even granted that the Congo should be unified , you don't protect Western security by first removing the pro-Western weight from the power equilibrium .
We can force Britain and France out of the Suez , but we cannot so much as try to force the Russian tanks back from Budapest .
We can mass our fleet against the Trujillos , but not against the Castros .
We can vote in the UN against South African apartheid or Portuguese rule in Angola , but we cannot even introduce a motion on the Berlin Wall -- much less , give the simple order to push the Wall down .
We officially receive the anti-French , Moscow-allied Algerian FLN , but we denounce the pro-Europe , anti-Communist OAS as criminal .
In the very week of our war against Katanga , we make a $133 million grant to Kwame Nkrumah , who has just declared his solidarity with the Communist bloc , and is busily turning his own country into a totalitarian dictatorship .
As our planes land the war materiel that kills pro-Western Katangans , we stand supinely bleating while Nehru's troops smash into a five-hundred-year-old district of our NATO ally , Portugal .
Most immediately relevant to these episodes in Goa , Katanga and Ghana , as to the Suez-Hungary crisis before them , is the belief that the main theater of the world drama is the underdeveloped region of Asia , Africa and Latin America .
From this belief is derived the practical orientation of our policy on the `` uncommitted '' ( `` neutralist '' , `` contested '' ) nations , especially on those whose leaders make the most noise -- Nehru , Tito , Nkrumah , Sukarno , Betancourt , etc. .
So far this season , Broadway's premieres have included twice as many adaptations and imports as original American stage plays .
Of straight dramas , there are All The Way Home , which owes much of its poetic power to the James Agee novel , A Death In The Family ; ;
The Wall , awkwardly based on the John Hersey novel ; ;
Advise And Consent , lively but shallow theater drawn from the mountainously detailed bestseller ; ;
Face Of A Hero ( closed ) , based on a Pierre Boulle novel .
The only original works attempting to reach any stature : Tennessee Williams' disappointing domestic comedy , Period Of Adjustment , and Arthur Laurents' clever but empty Invitation To A March .
Clearly the most provocative plays are all imported originals -- A Taste Of Honey , by Britain's young ( 19 when she wrote it ) Shelagh Delaney ; ;
Becket , by France's Jean Anouilh ; ;
The Hostage ( closed ) , by Ireland's Brendan Behan .
Among the musicals , Camelot came from T. H. White's The Once And Future King , and novels were the sources of the less than momentous Tenderloin and Do Re Mi .
Wildcat and The Unsinkable Molly Brown were originals , but pretty bad , leaving top honors again to an import -- the jaunty and charmingly French Irma La Douce .
The only other works at least technically original were dreary farces -- Send Me No Flowers ( closed ) , Under The Yum-Yum Tree , Critic's Choice .
In the forthcoming The Conquering Hero and Carnival , Broadway is not even adapting books , but reconverting old movies ( Hail The Conquering Hero and Lili ) .
Some memorable plays have been drawn from books , notably Life With Father and Diary Of Anne Frank .
And particularly in the musical field , adaptations have long been the rule , from Die Fledermaus and The Merry Widow to Oklahoma! and My Fair Lady .
As Critic Walter Kerr points out : `` Adaptations , so long as they are good , still qualify as creative '' .
And other defenders invariably argue that , after all , Shakespeare and Moliere were adapters too .
Laudably enough , it is offering classics and off-beat imports , but last week only one U.S. original was on the boards , Robert D. Hock's stunning Civil War work , Borak .
He : `` Come with me to the Casbah '' .
That exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in Manhattan , as more and more New Yorkers were discovering 29th Street and Eighth Avenue , where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like Arabian Nights , Grecian Palace and Egyptian Gardens are the American inpost of belly dancing .
The belly boites , with their papier-mache palm trees or hand-painted Ionic columns , heretofore existed mainly on the patronage of Greek and Turkish families .
But a great many of what Variety calls the `` Cooch Terpers '' are considerably less cosmic than that .
This is done at varying speeds , ranging from the slow and fast Shifte Telli ( a musical term meaning double strings ) to the fastest , ecstatic Karshilama ( meaning greetings or welcome ) .
The New York dancers are highly eclectic , varying the pattern with all kinds of personal improvisations , back bends or floor crawls .
All over the country , belly clubs have never been bigger , especially in Detroit , Boston and Chicago , and even in small towns ; ;
one of the best dancers , a Turkish girl named Semra , works at a roadhouse outside Bristol , Conn. .
The girls are kept booked and moving by several agents , notably voluble , black-bearded Murat Somay , a Manhattan Turk who is the Sol Hurok of the central abdomen .
Sometimes they get their initial experience in church haflis , conducted by Lebanese and Syrians in the U.S. , where they dance with just as few veils across their bodies as in nightclubs .
Jemela ( surname : Gerby ) , 23 , seems Hong Kong Oriental but has a Spanish father and an Indian mother , was born in America and educated at Holy Cross Academy and Textile High School , says she learned belly dancing at family picnics .
Serene ( Mrs. Wilson ) , 23 , was born in Budapest and raised in Manhattan .
Daughter of a gypsy mother who taught her to dance , she is one of the few really beautiful girls in the New York Casbah , with dark eyes and dark , waist-length hair , the face of an adolescent patrician and a lithe , glimmering body .
Marlene ( surname : Adamo ) , 25 , a Brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from Arabic friends in Paris , now lives on Manhattan's West Side , is about the best belly dancer working the Casbah , loves it so much that she dances on her day off .
Leila ( Malia Phillips ) , 25 , is a Greenwich Village painter of Persianesque miniatures who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles .
A graduate of Hollywood High School , she likes to imagine herself , as she takes the floor , `` a village girl coming in to a festival '' .
Gloria ( surname : Ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in Italy and once did `` chorus work '' in Toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
Of the handful of painters that Austria has produced in the 20th century , only one , Oskar Kokoschka , is widely known in the U.S. .
For ten years a small group of European and U.S. critics has been calling attention to the half-forgotten Austrian expressionist Egon Schiele , who died 42 years ago at the age of 28 .
The show has been to Boston and Manhattan , will in time reach Pittsburgh and Minneapolis .
Last week it opened at the J. B. Speed Museum in Louisville , at the very moment that a second Schiele exhibit was being made ready at the Felix Landau gallery in Los Angeles .
The son of a railway stationmaster , Schiele lived most of his childhood in the drowsy Danubian town of Tulln , 14 miles northwest of Vienna .
When he was 15 , his parents finally allowed him to attend classes at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna .
Cried one professor after a few months of Student Schiele's tantrums and rebellion : `` The devil himself must have defecated you into my classroom '' ! !
For a while his work was influenced deeply by the French impressionists , and by the patterned , mosaic-like paintings of Gustav Klimt , then the dean of Austrian art .
Drafted into the Austrian army , he rebelliously rejected discipline , wangled a Vienna billet , went on painting .
The most surprising thing about the Twenty-second Congress of the Soviet Communist Party is that it is surprising -- perhaps quite as much , in its own way , as the Twentieth Congress of 1956 , which ended with that famous `` secret '' report on Stalin .
The publication last July of the party's Draft Program -- that blueprint for the `` transition to communism '' -- had led the uninitiated to suppose that this Twenty-second Congress would be a sort of apotheosis of the Khrushchev regime , a solemn consecration of ideas which had , in fact , been current over the last three or four years ( i.e. , since the defeat of the `` anti-party group '' ) in all theoretical party journals .
These never ceased to suggest that if , in the eyes of Marx and Lenin `` full communism '' was still a very distant ideal , the establishment of a Communist society had now , under Khrushchev , become an `` immediate and tangible reality '' .
It seems that Khrushchev himself took a very special pride in having made a world-shaking contribution to Marxist doctrine with his Draft Program ( a large part of his twelve-hour speech at the recent Congress was , in fact , very largely a rehash of that interminable document ) .
He and other Soviet leaders responsible for the document were proud of having brought forward some new formulas , such as the early replacement of the dictatorship of the proletariat by an `` All People's State '' , and also of having laid down the lines for a much greater `` democratization '' of the whole hierarchy of Soviets , starting with the Supreme Soviet itself .
No doubt , there was still a lot in the Draft Program -- and in Khrushchev's speech -- which left many points obscure .
The Draft Program was interesting in other respects , too .
And , as we know , the Virgin Lands are not producing as much as Khrushchev had hoped .
One cannot but wonder whether these doubts about the success of Khrushchev's agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the big surprises provided by this Congress -- the obsessive harping on the crimes and misdeeds of the `` anti-party group '' -- Molotov , Malenkov , Kaganovich and others -- including the eighty-year-old Marshal Voroshilov .
The trouble with all these doctrinal quarrels is that we hear only one side of the story : what , in the secret councils of the Kremlin , Molotov had really proposed , we just don't know , and he has had no chance to reply .
One cannot help wondering whether Molotov and the rest of the `` anti-party group '' are not being used as China's whipping-boys by Khrushchev and his faithful followers .
The effect of Chou En-lai's clash with Khrushchev , together with the everlasting attacks on Molotov & Co. , has shifted the whole attention of the world , including that of the Soviet people , from the `` epoch-making '' twenty-year program to the present Soviet-Chinese conflict .
Not only , as we know , did Chou En-lai publicly treat Khrushchev's attack on Albania as `` something that we cannot consider as a serious Marxist-Leninist approach '' to the problem ( i.e. , as something thoroughly dictatorial and `` undemocratic '' ) , but the Albanian leaders went out of their way to be openly abusive to Khrushchev , calling him a liar , a bully , and so on .
It is extremely doubtful that the handful of Albanians who call themselves Communists could have done this without the direct approval of their Chinese friends .
The big question is whether , in the name of a restored Chinese-Soviet solidarity , the Chinese will choose to persuade the Albanians to present their humble apologies to Khrushchev -- or get rid of Enver Hoxa .
But Albania is merely a symptom of a real malaise between China and Russia .
Khrushchev , for all his bombastic prophecies about the inevitable decay of capitalism , is genuinely favorable to `` peaceful coexistence '' and would like , above all , the Berlin and German problems to be settled peacefully ; ;
But it seems that pressures against him are coming from somewhere -- in the first place from China , but perhaps also from that `` China Lobby '' which , I was assured in Moscow nearly two years ago , exists on the quiet inside the party .
To these people , solidarity and unity with China should be the real basis of Russia's future policy .
And the Chinese , as the Albanian incident shows , have strong suspicions that Khrushchev is anxious to secure a `` shameful '' peace with the West .
The fact that China ( which is obsessed by Formosa -- to Khrushchev a very small matter ) should be supported by North Korea and North Vietnam is highly indicative .
And one cannot but wonder whether Marshal Malinovsky , who was blowing hot and cold , exalting peace but also almost openly considering the possibility of preventive war against the West , wasn't trying to keep the Chinese quiet .
Was not this dropped primarily in order to `` appease '' the Chinese -- especially after `` Khrushchev's `` humiliating '' surrender to the West in canceling the German peace-treaty deadline of December 31 ? ?
Indications are that Khrushchev ( and , with him , the bulk of the Soviet people ) favor peaceful coexistence and ( with the exception of Berlin ) the maintenance of the status quo in the world .
The Chinese , North Vietnamese and North Koreans , on the other hand , feel that , militarily , Russia is strong enough to support them in the `` just wars of liberation '' they would like to embark on before long : with China attacking Formosa and the North Koreans and North Vietnamese liberating the southern half of their respective countries .
To the average American , this must sound like an incredible tale from a Saturday night TV movie .
They feel that the United States is engaged in a life-and-death struggle with communism for survival and world supremacy .
They feel that World War 3 , has already begun , and they are setting themselves up as a `` last line of defense '' against the Communist advance .
Their national leader , Robert Bolivar DePugh of Norborne , Mo. , says the Minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best suited to defeat the Red onslaught .
In their maneuvers last month , they wore World War 2 , camouflage garb and helmets , and carried unloaded M-1 rifles .
The maneuvers were held `` in secret '' after a regional seminar for the Minutemen , held in nearby Shiloh , Ill. , had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs , who had arrested regional leader Richard Lauchli of Collinsville , Ill. , and seized four operative weapons , including a Browning machine gun , two Browning automatic rifles and an M-4 rifle .
Undismayed by this contretemps , a small band of the faithful gathered at Lauchli's home at 6:30 A.M. the next day , put on their uniforms , and headed for a farm several miles away .
After a tortuous drive in an open truck and a World War 2 , army jeep down soggy trails , the band arrived at a small clearing squeezed between a long , low ridge and a creek-filled gully .
Here the two leaders , DePugh and Lauchli , hastened to put the group through its paces .
I would like to add one more practical reform to those mentioned by Russell Kirk ( Dec. 16 ) .
Next September , after receiving a degree from Yale's Master of Arts in Teaching Program , I will be teaching somewhere -- that much is guaranteed by the present shortage of mathematics teachers .
On the eve of the `` great debate '' on the proposal to give the President broad powers to make across-the-board tariff concessions which could practically bring us into the Atlantic Community , we should face the alternatives on this proposition .
Without this power we lay open any American industry which the Europeans may find it economically profitable to destroy to the will of others .
I disagree with Mr. Burnham's position on the Common Market ( Nov. 18 ) as a desirable organization for us to join .
For him to ignore the political consequences involved in an Atlantic Union of this kind is difficult to understand .
The pressure for our entry to the Common Market is mounting and we will proceed towards this amalgamated trade union by way of a purely `` economic thoroughfare '' , or garden path , with the political ramifications kept neatly in the background .
In entering this union we will be surrendering most , if not all , of our economic autonomy to international bodies such as the Atlantic Institute ( recently set up ) or the O.E.C.D. , I.M.F. and others .
If it is not enough that all of our internationalist One Worlders are advocating that we join this market , I refer you to an article in the New York Times' magazine section ( Nov. 12 , 1961 ) , by Mr. Eric Johnston , entitled `` We Must Join The Common Market '' .
Referring to Britain , he says , `` We see a nation that traditionally values sovereignty above all else willing to give up its economy , placing this authority in Continental hands '' .
Since the goal of our international planners is a World Government , this Atlantic Community would mark a giant step in that direction for , once American economic autonomy is absorbed , a larger grouping is a question of time .
Listen to what Mr. Johnston has to say : `` Consider the savage wounds that isolationism would inflict .
But the solution to this dilemma is not the incorporation of the United States into an Atlantic Community or `` economic empire '' , but merely what libertarians like Henry Hazlitt and Ludwig Von Mises have been arguing for years : an end to government regulations , an end to government competition in industry , and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry .
Create a free market here , give us a sound , debt-free money system , and we'll compete with anyone , Europe and Asia combined .
In short , get this governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about European competition or Communism either .
If we go into this Common Market , we might just as well stop talking about Constitutional guarantees , Connally Amendments or , for that matter , conservatism in general .
We welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided discussion of the Atlantic Common Market which JNR will be continuing in our pages .
The Peiping Chinese were the only major silver seller in the world markets who stopped selling the metal on Monday morning , November 27 , anticipating by two days the announcement of the U.S. Treasury that the pegged offering price will be removed .
In 1954 I was drafted and after serving two years honorably on Active Duty I was not required to participate in any further Army Reserve activities .
But , in spite of this , I , at present a man 31 years of age and a College Professor , have been recalled `` by direction of the President '' to report on November 25th to Fort Devens , Massachusetts , for another twelve months of Active Duty as an Sp 4 ( the equivalent of a PFC ) .
Today , seven years after the date of my initial induction as a draftee , I am Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science at St. Michael's College .
For , after leaving the Army in 1956 , I spent five years in Graduate School first at Boston College and then at the University of Toronto .
The possibility of recall into the Army is part of the price that a modern American has to pay for the enviable heritage of liberty which he enjoys .
Taken back into the Army now as an Sp 4 , I am leaving 110 college students whose teacher I am .
) At this late date , it is impossible for St. Michael's College to find a suitable replacement for me .
Even apart from the fact that now at the age of 31 my personal life is being totally disrupted for the second time for no very compelling reason -- I cannot help looking around at the black leather jacket brigades standing idly on the street corners and in the taverns of every American city and asking myself if our society has gone mad .
In news broadcasts I consistently hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the Katanga Army referred to as mercenaries .
If the Hessian troops sent here willy-nilly by the Hessian Government to fight for England in the 1770's were mercenaries , what shall we call the UN troops sent to the Congo willy-nilly by their governments to fight for the United Nations ? ?
If the UN troops are not mercenaries then the Hessians were not mercenaries either .
And if the foreigners fighting in the Katanga Army are mercenaries then Lafayette and Von Steuben were mercenaries too , as were also the members of the Lafayette Escadrille in the early part of World War 1 , and of Chennault's Flying Tigers in the early days of World War 2 .
It doesn't take a Gore Vidal to tell you what's wrong with Cherokee Textile's slogan ( Pitney-Bowes Objects '' , July 1 ) .
Suggest the following twenty-first-century amendment : By moving the term `` Republic '' to lower case , substituting the modern phrase , `` move ahead '' for the stodgy `` keep '' , and by using the Postmaster's name on every envelope ( in caps , of course , with the `` in spite '' as faded as possible ) , the slogan cannot fail .
`` On trial in Jakarta for having flown for the Indonesian anti-Communist insurgents , U.S. pilot Alan Lawrence Pope boldly told the court that in supporting the freedom fighters , he was actually defending the sovereignty and independence of Indonesia .
Facing a prosecution which has demanded the death penalty , he said : ' I have participated in the war against Communism in Korea and at Dienbienphu , and I have helped in the evacuation of North Vietnamese to the free world .
At least in Indonesia , Khrushchev found an American proud to be at total war with Communism '' ! !
I found recently a very small article in the New York Times :
`` U.S. Flier Loses Plea .
Indonesia Court Upholds Pope's Death Sentence .
-- Indonesia Military Supreme Court has confirmed the death sentence passed on Alan Lawrence Pope , an American pilot .
Pope was convicted last year of having aided North Celebes rebels by flying bombing missions .
He has been in prison since May , 1958 , when his aircraft was shot down over Moluccas .
He may appeal to President Sukarno for clemency '' .
As we see , Pope may appeal to President Sukarno , Khrushchev's friend , for clemency .
The Eleanor Roosevelt Tractor Committee acts on behalf of the Cuban freedom fighters .
But who will act now and immediately to save the life of Alan Pope ? ?
A few days before I saw your mention of what Texas Liberals were doing to promote `` Louis Capet '' ( The Week '' , June 3 ) , another analogy had occurred to me .
And Marie Antoinette -- Jacqueline Bouvier .
French Revolution -- Conservative Revolution ? ?
Truly , that Liberals should choose Louis 14 , as a bogey-symbol of conservatism is grotesquely ironic , considering the Louis 14 , character of their Grand Monarque , FDR : not only in his accretion of absolute power and personal deification , ( le roi gouverne par lui meme ) , but in the disastrous effects of his spending and war policies .
In defeating `` Louis Capet '' , John Tower's victory in Texas signals , once again , the end of the divine right of Liberalism .
It seems to me that N.C. , in his editorial `` Confrontation '' ( SR , Mar. 25 ) , has hit upon the real problem that bothers all of us in a complex world : how do we retain our personal relationship with those who suffer ? ?
`` Confrontation '' should fortify us all , whether in Southeast Asia or the U.S. .
Congratulations to N.C. for successfully delving into the heart of the problems that face the Peace Corps .
The editorial `` Confrontation '' was certainly direct in its appeal to those of us living here in America .
I would hope that Sargent Shriver will encourage everyone entering the Peace Corps to read it .
The important people to humanity are not the Khrushchevs and the Castros but the Schweitzers and the Dooleys , and the others like them whose names we will never know .
Editor's note : Reprints of `` Confrontation '' will be included among the material to be distributed to members of the Peace Corps .
A Peace Corps official described the editorial as `` precisely the message we need to communicate to the men and women who will soon be Peace Corps volunteers '' .
F. L. Lucas's article in SR's April 1 issue seemed to be a very fair and objective analysis of the New English Bible .
I certainly hope this will be the impression left in the minds of readers , rather than the comment by Cleveland Amory in his first of the month column .
It is blind , fundamentalist dogmatism to say , `` Messing around with the King James version seems to us a perilous sport at best '' .
Lester Markel is on the right track in his article `` Interpretation Of Interpretation '' ( SR , Mar. 11 ) .
The charges by the late junior Senator from Wisconsin not only destroyed innocent people but misled the nation .
I would like to see you devote some space in an early issue to the news blackout concerning President Kennedy's activities , so far as Southern California is concerned .
To begin with , the all-powerful Los Angeles Times does not publish a transcript of these press conferences .
I am sure that they did when Eisenhower was President .
However , last night the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got on TV were a few snatches which Douglas Edwards and Huntley and Brinkley could squeeze into their programs .
However , by comparing the TV snatches , two different radio station re-runs , and the censored Los Angeles Times version , I found that the radio stations had edited out questions ( ABC removed the one regarding Laos ) or even a paragraph out of the middle of the President's answer .
It also happened with the Inauguration , which was not re-run at all during the evening hours , and I wrote to the TV editor of the Times .
I was interested in James Webb Young's Madison Avenue column in which he raised the question : `` Do We Need a College of Propaganda '' ? ?
We had a couple of schools in this country , the principal one being on the Marshall Field estate out in Lloyd's Neck .
There were also a couple in Canada , and several in England .
Four of us here in the United States attended , first as students , then as instructors , almost every one of these schools , in England , Canada , and the United States .
We set up the Lloyd's Neck school , worked out its curriculum , and taught there .
Congratulations on the article `` Do We Need A College Of Propaganda '' ? ?
many of us in public relations were flattered that Richard L. Tobin chose to devote his editorial in the March 11 Communications Supplement to the merger of the Public Relations Society of America and the American Public Relations Association .
Whether in his forthcoming book C. P. Snow commits the errors of judgment and of fact with which your heavily autobiographical critic charged him is important .
Editor's note : Sir Robert Watson-Watt wrote , on page 50 of SR Research for 4 March 1961 : :
`` I have read an advance copy of the Snow book which is to be titled , ' Science And Government .
But I have compared its text with already published commentaries on the 1960 series of Godkin lectures at Harvard , from which the book was derived , and I can with confidence challenge the gist of C. P. Snow's incautious tale '' .
Watson-Watt's remarks in SR did not then , constitute a review of the book but a rebuttal to the Godkin Lectures .
Representatives of Harvard University Press , which is publishing the book this month of April , recognize and freely acknowledge that they invited such reaction by allowing Life magazine to print an excerpt from the book in advance of the book's publication date .
Sir Robert Watson-Watt's `` rebuttal '' of Sir Charles Snow's Godkin Lectures is marred throughout by too forceful a desire to defend Lindemann and apparently himself from Sir Charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those `` falsehoods '' in an unclear incoherent argument .
It submits an enthusiastic , impressionistic conception of Lindemann contributing another aspect of the man , but on no more authoritative basis than Sir Charles' account .
But we are to believe that Lindemann actively supported radar outside the Tizard Committee , and dissembling , discounted it inside ? ?
If so , I would lean to Sir Charles' conception of the man .
It is not news that Nathan Milstein is a wizard of the violin .
Certainly not in Orchestra Hall where he has played countless recitals , and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , playing the Brahms Concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
There was about that song something incandescent , for this Brahms was Milstein at white heat .
But he had in Walter Hendl a willing conductor able only up to a point .
That is , when Mr. Milstein thrust straight to the core of the music , sparks flying , bow shredding , violin singing , glittering and sometimes spitting , Mr. Hendl could go along .
But Mr. Hendl does not go straight to any point .
So we had some dazzling and memorable Milstein , but not great Brahms .
The concert opened with another big romantic score , Schumann's Overture to `` Manfred '' , which suffered fate , this time with orchestral thrusts to the Byronic point to keep it afloat .
The Bayreuth Festival opens July 23 with a new production of `` Tannhaeuser '' staged by Wieland Wagner , who is doing all the operas this time , and conducted by Wolfgang Sawallisch .
Sawalisch also conducts `` The Flying Dutch '' , opening July 24 .
`` Parsifal '' follows July 25 , with Hans Knappertsbusch conducting , and he also conducts `` Die Meistersinger '' , to be presented Aug. 8 and 12 .
The `` Ring '' cycles are July 26 , 27 , 28 and 30 , and Aug. 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
No casts are listed , but Lotte Lehmann sent word that the Negro soprano , Grace Bumbry , will sing Venus in `` Tannhaeuser '' .
Remember how by a series of booking absurdities Chicago missed seeing the Bolshoi Ballet ? ?
Remember how by lack of two big theaters Chicago missed the first visit of the Royal Danish Ballet ? ?
But barring a miracle , and don't hold your breath for it , Chicago will not see the Leningrad-Kirov Ballet , which stems from the ballet cradle of the Maryinsky and is one of the great companies of the world .
The engagement was supposed to be all set for the big theater in McCormick Place , which Sol Hurok , ballet booker extraordinary , considers the finest house of its kind in the country -- and of course he doesn't weep at the capacity , either .
Allied Arts Corporation first listed the Chicago dates as Dec. 4 thru 10 .
Later the Hurok office made it Dec. 8 thru 17 , a nice , long booking for the full repertory .
Allied Arts had booked Marlene Dietrich into McCormick Place Dec. 8 and 9 .
Not La Dietrich .
Allied Arts then notified us that the Kirov would cut short its Los Angeles booking , fly here to open Nov. 28 , and close Dec. 2 .
A couple of days later a balletomane told me he had telephoned Allied Arts for ticket information and was told `` the newspapers had made a mistake '' .
The Kirov Ballet is firmly booked into the Shrine Auditorium , Los Angeles , Nov. 21 thru Dec. 4 .
Well , Dietrich won't budge from McCormick Place .
Then how about the Civic Opera House ? ?
Well , Allied Arts has booked Lena Horne there for a week starting Dec. 4 .
Queried about the impasse , Allied Arts said : `` Better cancel the Kirov for the time being .
So the Kirov will fly back to Russia , minus a Chicago engagement , a serious loss for dance fans -- and for the frustrated bookers , cancellation of one of the richest bookings in the country .
Paintings and drawings by Marie Moore of St. Thomas , Virgin Islands , are shown thru Nov. 5 at the Meadows Gallery , 3211 Ellis Av. , week days , 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. , Sundays 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. , closed Mondays .
An exhibition of Evelyn Cibula's paintings will open with a reception Nov. 5 at the Evanston Community center , 828 Davis St. .
Abstractions and semi-abstractions by Everett McNear are being exhibited by the University Gallery of Notre Dame until Nov. 5 .
In the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget , the Dallas Civic Opera will use San Francisco's new Leni Bauer-Ecsy production of `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' this season , returning the favor next season when San Francisco uses the Dallas `` Don Giovanni '' , designed by Franco Zeffirelli .
H E. Bates has scribbled a farce called `` Hark , Hark , The Lark '' ! !
One is an imperial London stockbroker called Jerebohm .
Another is a wily countryman called Larkin , whose blandly boisterous progress has been chronicled , I believe , in earlier volumes of Mr. Bates' comedie humaine .
Well , Jerebohm and his wife Pinkie have reached the stage of affluence that stirs a longing for the more atrociously expensive rustic simplicities .
They want to own a junior-grade castle , or a manor house , or some modest little place where Shakespeare might once have staged a pageant for Great Elizabeth and all her bearded courtiers .
The name of it is Gore Court , and it is surrounded by a wasteland that would impress T. S. Eliot .
He suggests that Gore Court embodies all the glories of Tudor splendor .
It's a wonder , really , to how much mendacious trouble Larkin puts himself to sell the Jerebohms that preposterous manse .
He doesn't really need the immense sum of money ( probably converted from American gold on the London Exchange ) he makes them pay .
One of those capital-gains ventures , in fact , has saddled him with Gore Court .
If , in Larkin's eyes , they are nothing but Piccadilly farmers , he has as much to learn about them as they have to learn about the ways of truly rural living .
First the Larkins are ahead , then the Jerebohms .
One of the local callers , a retired brigadier apparently left over from Kipling's tales of India , does not approve of the way Larkin gets his birds .
It is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive film yet made from Miguel De Cervantes' `` Don Quixote '' is the brilliant Russian spectacle , done in wide screen and color , which opened yesterday at the Fifty-fifth Street and Sixty-eighth Street Playhouses .
More than a beautiful visualization of the illustrious adventures and escapades of the tragi-comic knight-errant and his squire , Sancho Panza , in seventeenth-century Spain , this inevitably abbreviated rendering of the classic satire on chivalry is an affectingly warm and human exposition of character .
Nikolai Cherkasov , the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible , performs the lanky Don Quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
Directed by Grigory Kozintsev in a tempo that is studiously slow , he develops a sense of a high tradition shining brightly and passing gravely through an impious world .
The complexities of communication have been considerably abetted in this case by appropriately stilted English language that has been excellently dubbed in place of the Russian dialogue .
Since Russian was being spoken instead of Spanish , there is no violation of artistry or logic here .
Splendid , too , is the performance of Yuri Tolubeyev , one of Russia's leading comedians , as Sancho Panza , the fat , grotesque `` squire '' .
The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
True , the pattern and flow of the drama have strong literary qualities that are a bit wearisome in the first half , before Don Quixote goes to the duke's court .
Also on the bill at the Fifty-fifth Street is a nice ten-minute color film called `` Sunday In Greenwich Village '' , a tour of the haunts and joints .
At least this seemed to be the working hypothesis for `` Chicago And All That Jazz '' , presented on NBC-TV Nov. 26 .
The program came out of the NBC Special Projects department , and was slotted in the Du Pont Show Of The Week series .
Perhaps Special Projects necessarily thinks along documentary lines .
A few years ago a `` Timex All-Star Jazz Show '' offered a broad range of styles , ranging from Lionel Hampton's big band to the free-wheeling Dukes Of Dixieland .
About that same time John Crosby's TV series on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space is one of the most sensible things a producer can do .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' could not be faulted on the choice of artists .
Some of the in-person performers were Jack Teagarden , Gene Krupa , Bud Freeman , Pee Wee Russell , Johnny St. Cyr , Joe Sullivan , Red Allen , Lil Armstrong , Blossom Seeley .
Furthermore , Garry Moore makes an ideal master of ceremonies .
Another source of NBC pride was its rare film clip of Bix Beiderbecke , but this view of the great trumpeter flew by so fast that a prolonged wink would have blotted out the entire glimpse .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' may have wound up satisfying neither the confirmed fan nor the inquisitive newcomer .
Even Joan Sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous reception she received from the Metropolitan Opera audience attending her debut as Lucia in Donizetti's `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' Sunday night .
The crowd staged its own mad scene in salvos of cheers and applause and finally a standing ovation as Miss Sutherland took curtain call after curtain call following a fantastic `` Mad Scene '' created on her own and with the help of the composer and the other performers .
Her entrance in Scene 2 , Act 1 , brought some disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note .
Each high note had the crowd in ecstasy so that it stopped the show midway in the `` Mad Scene '' , but the real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding at the moment .
Miss Sutherland appeared almost as another person in this scene : A much more girlish Lucia , a sensational coloratura who ran across stage while singing , and an actress immersed in her role .
What followed the outburst brought almost breathless silence as Miss Sutherland revealed her mastery of a voice probably unique among sopranos today .
The performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor , Silvio Varviso .
Richard Tucker sang Edgardo in glorious voice .
Miss Sutherland first sang Lucia at Covent Garden in 1959 .
( The first Metropolitan Opera broadcast on Dec. 9 will introduce her as Lucia .
) She has since turned to Bellini , whose opera `` Beatrice Di Tenda '' in a concert version with the American Opera Society introduced her to New York last season .
She will sing `` La Sonambula '' with it here next week .
You will need a stereo music system , with speakers preferably placed at least seven or eight feet apart , and one or more of the new London `` Phase 4 '' records .
There are 12 of these to choose from , all of them of popular music except for the star release , Pass In Review ( SP-44001 ) .
The Percussive Twenties ( SP-44006 ) stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day , and Johnny Keating's Kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in Percussive Moods ( SP-44005 ) .
Big Band Percussion ( SP-44002 ) seemed one of the least attractive discs -- the arrangements just didn't have so much character as the others .
The penalty for this is noticeable in the big , bold , brilliant , but brassy piano sounds in Melody And Percussion For Two Pianos ( SP-44007 ) .
Pass In Review practically guarantees enjoyment , and is a dramatic demonstration of the potentialities of any stereo music system .
Thus , in `` The Story Of Ruth '' we have Ruth , Naomi , and Boaz and sets that are meticulously authentic .
But except for a vague adherence to the basic storyline -- i.e. , that Ruth remained with Naomi and finally wound up with Boaz -- the film version has little to do with the Bible .
And in the new `` King Of Kings '' the plot involves intrigues and twists and turns that cannot be traced to the Gospels .
Earlier this month Edward R. Murrow , director of the United States Information Agency , came to Hollywood and had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry .
He intimated that they weren't doing the country much good in the Cold War .
Would we want a future-day Gibbon or Macaulay recounting the saga of America with movies as his prime source of knowledge ? ?
If a man totally ignorant of America were to judge our land and its civilization based on Hollywood alone , what conclusions do you think he might come to ? ?
Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall .
He is now president of the Chicago Conservatory College .
His pianist was Donald Jenni , a faculty member at DePaul University .
The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged by the artists , so that for the first half of the program , when the piano was partially open , Mr. Jenni's playing was too loud .
In vying with him , Mr. D'Albert also seemed to be overdriving his tone .
This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the performances , however , except in the case of the opening work , Mozart's Sonata in A ( K. 526 ) , which clattered along noisily in an unrelieved fashion .
Brahm's Sonata in A , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists' strong , large-scale treatment .
A Sonata For Violin And Piano , called `` Bella Bella '' , by Robert Fleming , was given its first United States performance .
The title refers to the nickname given his wife by the composer , who is also a member of the National Film Board of Canada .
Works by Dohnanyi , Hubay , Mr. D'Albert himself and Paganini , indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase .
Standard items by Sarasate and Saint-Saens completed the program .
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital since 1948 .
Since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure .
It was in them that Miss Xydis was at her best .
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No. 12 , Op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble .
The four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured , rich in color and songful .
And the Prokofieff Seventh Sonata had the combination of romanticism and modern bravura that Prokofieff needs .
Miss Xydis' earlier selections were Mendelssohn's Variations Serieuses , in which each variation was nicely set off from the others ; ;
Haydn's Sonata in E minor , which was unfailingly pleasant in sound , and Chopin's Sonata in B flat minor .
All the generals who held important commands in World War 2 , did not write books .
It is `` Defeat Into Victory '' , by Field Marshal Viscount Slim .
Field Marshal Slim has abridged it for the benefit of `` those who , finding not so great an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves , are more interested in men and their reactions to stress , hardship and danger '' .
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is , of course , the Field Marshal himself .
William Joseph Slim , First Viscount Slim , former Governor General of Australia , was the principal British commander in the field during the Burma War .
He returned in command of an international army of Gurkhas , Indians , Africans , Chinese and British .
`` The Forgotten War '' his soldiers called the Burma fighting because the war in Africa and Europe enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines .
Parts of `` Defeat Into Victory '' are a tangle of Burmese place names and military units , but a little application makes everything clear enough .
Field Marshal Slim is striking in description , amusing in many anecdotes .
`` Defeat Into Victory '' is a dramatic and lively military narrative .
Before he could return to Burma , Field Marshal Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits .
administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with Top Brass -- British , American and Chinese ; ;
Commenting on these and other matters , Field Marshal Slim makes many frank and provocative remarks :
Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders .
Of the Japanese private he says : `` He fought and marched till he died .
Brooding about future wars , the Field Marshal has this to say : `` The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave ( as the white ) , usually more careless of death , less encumbered by mental doubts , less troubled by humanitarian sentiment , and not so moved by slaughter and mutilation around him .
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience .
Under the capable direction of the choir's founder , Geroge Bragg , the twenty-six boys made some lovely sounds in an opening group of Renaissance and Baroque madrigals and motets , excerpts from Pergolesi's `` Stabat Mater '' and all of the Britten `` Ceremonial Of Carols '' .
But Mr. Bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior .
The piano accompaniments by Istvan Szelenyi were stylish .
A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly .
Other capable soloists included David Clifton , Joseph Schockler and Pat Thompson .
Boys will be boys , and Texans will be Texans .
The Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze , after the region of Poland , where it has its headquarters , opened a three-week engagement at the City Center last night .
But under the direction of Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska , who with her late husband founded the organization in 1948 , it has all been put into theatrical form , treated selectively , choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators , and performed altogether professionally .
the mazurka choreographed by Witold Zapala to music from Moniuszko's opera , `` Strasny Dwor' , may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see ; ;
The Theatre-by-the-Sea , Matunuck , presents `` King Of Hearts '' by Jean Kerr and Eleanor Brooke .
Directed by Michael Murray ; ;
settings by William David Roberts .
Producer John Holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's opener at Matunuck in Jean Kerr's `` King Of Hearts '' .
John Heffernan , playing Larry Larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
This may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of David Hedison , Providence's contribution to Hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox .
Not that Mr. Hedison does not make the most of his role .
A word should be said for Gary Morgan , a Broadway youngster who , as the adopted son , makes life miserable for nearly everybody and Larkin in particular .
And for his playmate , Francis Coletta of West Warwick , who has a bit part , Billy .
The Newport Playhouse presents `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton , directed by Wallace Gray .
The angriest young man in Newport last night was at the Playhouse , where `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
For the hero of this work by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton is a chap embittered by more than the lack of beer during a jam session .
It is into this household , one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls out of its people , that George Dillon enters at the beginning of the play .
Not altogether a successful play , `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' overcomes through sheer vitality and power what in a lesser work might be crippling .
There is a fine second act , as an example , one in which Samuel Groom , as Dillon , has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage after another .
Just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is Laura Stuart , whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch .
Also fine are Sue Lawless , as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female spider and just as destructive , Harold Cherry , as her scratchy spouse , and Hildy Weissman , as a vegetable in human form .
The Warwick Musical Theater presents `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' With music and lyrics by Frank Loesser , directed by Christopher Hewett , choreography by Peter Conlow , musical direction by Samuel Matlowsky .
Everybody fell in love with Amy again last night at the Warwick Musical Theater , and Shelley Berman was to blame .
One of the finest soft shoe tunes ever invented , `` Once In Love With Amy '' is also , of course , one of the most tantalizingly persistent of light love lyrics to come out of American musical comedy in our era .
So the audience last night was all ears and eyes just after Act 2 , got a rousing opening chorus , `` Where's Charley ? ?
It is greatly to Berman's credit that he made no attempt to outdo Ray Bolger .
He dropped his earlier and delightful hamming , which is about the only way to handle the old war horse called `` Charley's Aunt '' , and let himself go with as appealing an `` Amy '' as anybody could ask .
In brief , Berman played himself and not Bolger .
The costumes are stunning evocations of the voluminous gowns and picture hats of the Gibson Girl days .
The ballet work is on the nose , especially in the opening number by `` The New Ashmolean Marching Society and Students' Conservatory Band '' , along with a fiery and sultry Brazilian fantasia later .
Sparrow-size Virginia Gibson , with sparkling blue eyes and a cheerful smile , made a suitably perky Amy , while Melisande Congdon , as the real aunt , was positively monumental in the very best Gibson Girl manner .
All told , `` Where's Charley ? ?
It has a fast pace , excellent music , expert direction , and not only a good comedian , but an appealing person in his own right , Mr. Berman .
The Broadway Theater League of Rhode Island presents C. Edwin Knill's and Martin Tahse's production of `` Fiorello ! !
'' At Veterans Memorial Auditorium .
The book is by Jerome Weidman and George Abbott , music by Jerry Bock , lyrics by Sheldon Harnick , choreography by Peter Gennaro , scenery , costumes and lighting by William and Jean Eckart , musical direction by Jack Elliott , and the production was directed by Mr. Abbott .
The company which performed the Pulitzer Prize musical here last night and will repeat it twice today is full of bounce , the politicians are in fine voice , the chorines evoke happy memories , and the Little Flower rides to break a lance again .
'' Performed in New York by the original cast and I think this company is every bit as good , and perhaps better .
Bob Carroll may not bear quite as close a physical resemblance to LaGuardia as Tom Bosley does , but I was amazed at the way he became more and more Fiorello as the evening progressed , until one had to catch one's self up and remember that this wasn't really LaGuardia come back among us again .
Then Rudy Bond was simply grand as Ben , the distraught Republican Party district chieftain .
And Paul Lipson , as Morris , the faithful one who never gets home to his Shirley's dinner , was fine , too .
Charlotte Fairchild was excellent as the loyal Marie , who became the second Mrs. LaGuardia , singing and acting with remarkable conviction .
Jen Nelson , as Thea , his first wife , managed to make that short role impressive .
And little Zeme North , a Dora with real spirit and verve , was fascinating whether she was singing of her love for Floyd , the cop who becomes sewer commissioner and then is promoted into garbage , or just dancing to display her exuberant feelings .
Such fascinating novelties in the score as the fugual treatment of `` On The Side Of The Angels '' and `` Politics And Poker '' were handled splendidly , and I thought Rudy Bond and his band of tuneful ward-heelers made `` Little Tin Box '' even better than it was done by the New York cast ; ;
LaGuardia's multi-lingual rallies , when he is running for Congress , are well staged , and wind up in a wild Jewish folk-dance that is really great musical theater .
Loew's theater presents `` Where The Boys Are '' , an MGM picture produced by Joe Pasternak and directed by Henry Levin from a screenplay by George Wells .
Since the hero , a sterling and upright fellow , is a rich Brown senior , while two Yalies are cast as virtual rapists , I suppose I should disqualify myself from sitting in judgment on `` Where The Boys Are '' , but I shall do nothing of the sort .
Instead -- and not just to prove my objectivity -- I hasten to report that it's a highly amusing film which probably does a fairly accurate job of reporting on the Easter vacation shenanigans of collegians down in Fort Lauderdale , and that it seems to come to grips quite honestly with the moral problem that most commonly vexes youngsters in this age group -- that is to say , sex .
`` Where The Boys Are '' also has a juvenile bounce that makes for a refreshing venture in comedy .
I was delighted with Paula Prentiss' comedy performance , which was as fresh and unstilted as one's highest hopes might ask .
A couple of the males made good comedy , too -- Jim Hutton and Frank Gorshin .
The only performance which was too soft for me was that of Yvette Mimieux , but since someone had to become the victim of despoilers , just to emphasize that such things do happen at these fracases , I suppose this was the attitude the part called for .
To anyone who remembers Newport at its less than maximum violence , this view of what the boys and girls do in the springtime before they wing north for the Jazz Festival ought to prove entertaining .
The second feature , `` The Price Of Silence '' , is a British detective story that will talk your head off .
The superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of William James was never more evident than in his letters .
For this latest addition to the Great Letters Series , under the general editorship of Louis Kronenberger , Miss Hardwick has made a selection which admirably displays the variety of James's genius , not to mention the felicities of his style .
His famous criticism of brother Henry's `` third style '' is surely as subtly , even elegantly , worded an analysis of the latter's intricate air castles as Henry himself could ever have produced .
Most of all , his letters to his philosophic colleagues show a magnanimity as well as an honesty which help to explain Whitehead's reference to James as `` that adorable genius '' .
To his Harvard colleague , Josiah Royce , whose philosophic position differed radically from his own , James could write , `` Different as our minds are , yours has nourished mine , as no other social influence ever has , and in converse with you I have always felt that my life was being lived importantly '' .
Of another colleague , George Santayana , he could write : `` The great event in my life recently has been the reading of Santayana's book .
Although I absolutely reject the Platonism of it , I have literally squealed with delight at the imperturbable perfection with which the position is laid down on page after page '' .
Writing to his colleague George Herbert Palmer -- `` Glorious old Palmer '' , as he addresses him -- James says that if only the students at Harvard could really understand Royce , Santayana , Palmer , and himself and see that their varying systems are `` so many religions , ways of fronting life , and worth fighting for '' , then Harvard would have a genuine philosophic universe .
The `` belaboring '' is of course jocular , yet James was not lacking in fundamental seriousness -- unless we measure him by that ultimate seriousness of the great religious leader or thinker who stakes all on his vision of God .
But there is a dignity and even a hint of the inspired prophet in his words to one correspondent : `` You ask what I am going to ' reply ' to Bradley .
The collected works of James Thurber , now numbering 25 volumes ( including the present exhibit ) represent a high standard of literary excellence , as every schoolboy knows .
About all that remains to be said is that the present selection , most of which appeared first in The New Yorker , comprises ( as usual ) a slightly unstrung necklace , held together by little more than a slender thread cunningly inserted in the spine of the book .
The one unifying note , if any , is sounded in the initial article entitled : `` How To Get Through The Day '' .
`` The Tyranny Of Trivia '' suggests arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber .
And new vistas of hairshirt asceticism are opened by scholarly monographs entitled : `` Friends , Romans , Countrymen , Lend Me Your Ear-Muffs '' , `` Such a Phrase as Drifts Through Dream '' , and `` The New Vocabularianism '' .
A burlesque paean entitled : `` Hark The Herald Tribune , Times , And All The Other Angels Sing '' brilliantly succeeds in exaggerating even motion-picture ballyhooey .
`` How The Kooks Crumble '' features an amusingly accurate take-off on sneaky announcers who attempt to homogenize radio-TV commercials , and `` The Watchers Of The Night '' is a veritable waking nightmare .
A semi-serious literary document entitled `` The Wings Of Henry James '' is noteworthy , if only for a keenly trenchant though little-known comment on the master's difficult later period by modest Owen Wister , author of `` The Virginian '' .
`` One of them banged the sash of the window nearest my bed around midnight in July and I leaped out of sleep and out of bed .
' Thank God for that ' , I said ; ;
In a sense , perhaps , Thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter ( was it Salvador Dali ? ?
This is something like what Thurber's best effects are like , if I am not mistaken .
The reader meets a few old friends like Blimp and the TUC horse , and becomes better acquainted with new members of the cast of characters like the bomb itself , and civilization in her classic robe watching the nuclear arms race , her hair standing straight out .
But there was terror in the thirties when the Nazis were on the loose and in those days Low struck like lightning .
It might be argued that the Communists are less inhuman than the Nazis and furnish the artist with drama in a lower key .
The Communists wield a power unknown to Hitler .
Do we ourselves offer Mr. Low less of a crusade ? ?
Stalin's death , Churchill's farewell to public life , Hillary and Tensing on Everest , Quemoy and Matsu -- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade .
A gray fox with a patch on one eye -- confidence man , city slicker , lebensraum specialist -- tries to take over Catfish Bend in this third relaxed allegory from Mr. Burman's refreshing Louisiana animal community .
The fox is all ingratiating smiles when he arrives from New Orleans , accompanied by one wharf rat .
But like all despots , as he builds his following from among the gullible , he grows more threatening toward those who won't follow -- such solid citizens as Doc Raccoon ; ;
Robert Hillyer , the poet , writes in his introduction to this brief animal fable that Mr. Burman ought to win a Nobel Prize for the Catfish Bend series .
But it's hard to imagine Mr. Burman as a Nobel laureate on the basis of these charming but not really momentous fables .
In substance they lie somewhere between the Southern dialect animal stories of Joel Chandler Harris ( Uncle Remus ) and the polished , witty fables of James Thurber .
George Kennan's account of relations between Russia and the West from the fall of Tsarism to the end of World War 2 , is the finest piece of diplomatic history that has appeared in many years .
In short , the book , based largely on lectures delivered at Harvard University , is both reliable and readable ; ;
If Mr. Kennan is sometimes a little somber in his appraisals , if his analysis of how Western diplomacy met the challenge of an era of great wars and social revolutions is often critical and pessimistic -- well , the record itself is not too encouraging .
But he rejects , perhaps a little too sweepingly , the theory that disloyal and pro-Communist influences may have contributed to the policy of appeasing Stalin which persisted until after the end of the war and reached its high point at the Yalta Conference in February , 1945 .
After all , Alger Hiss , subsequently convicted of perjury in denying that he gave secret State Department documents to Soviet agents , was at Yalta .
And Harry Dexter White , implicated in F.B.I. reports in Communist associations , was one of the architects of the Morgenthau Plan , which had it ever been put into full operation , would have simply handed Germany to Stalin .
One item in this unhappy scheme was to have Germany policed exclusively by its continental neighbors , among whom only the Soviet Union possessed real military strength .
`` You see , first of all and in a sense as the source of all other ills , the unshakeable American commitment to the principle of unconditional surrender : The tendency to view any war in which we might be involved not as a means of achieving limited objectives in the way of changes in a given status quo , but as a struggle to the death between total virtue and total evil , with the result that the war had absolutely to be fought to the complete destruction of the enemy's power , no matter what disadvantages or complications this might involve for the more distant future '' .
A veteran diplomat with an extraordinary knowledge of Russian language , history and literature , Kennan recalls how , at the time of Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union in 1941 , he penned a private note to a State Department official , expressing the hope that `` never would we associate ourselves with Russian purposes in the areas of eastern Europe beyond her own boundaries '' .
With justified bitterness the author speaks of `` what seems to me to have been an inexcusable body of ignorance about the nature of the Russian Communist movement , about the history of its diplomacy , about what had happened in the purges , and about what had been going on in Poland and the Baltic States '' .
He also speaks of Franklin D. Roosevelt's `` puerile '' assumption that `` if only he ( Stalin ) could be exposed to the persuasive charm of someone like F.D.R. himself , ideological preconceptions would melt and Russia's co-operation with the West could be easily arranged '' .
No wonder Khrushchev's first message to President Kennedy was a wistful desire for the return of the `` good old days '' of Roosevelt .
This fascinating story begins with a sketch , rich in personal detail , of the glancing mutual impact of World War 1 , and the two instalments of the Russian Revolution .
The first of these involved the replacement of the Tsar by a liberal Provisional Government in March , 1917 ; ;
the second , the seizure of power by the Bolsheviks ( who later called themselves Communists ) in November of the same year .
As Kennan shows , the judgment of the Allied governments about what was happening in Russia was warped by the obsession of defeating Germany .
They attributed everything that went wrong in Russia to German influence and intrigue .
`` Had a world war not been in progress , there would never , under any conceivable stretch of the imagination , have been an Allied intervention in North Russia '' .
And here is Kennan's image of Hitler , Stalin's temporary collaborator in the subjugation and oppression of weaker peoples , and his later enemy :
`` Behind that Charlie Chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered his forehead , behind the tirades and the sulky silences , the passionate orations and the occasional dull evasive stare , behind the prejudices , the cynicism , the total amorality of behavior , behind even the tendency to great strategic mistakes , there lay a statesman of no mean qualities : Shrewd , calculating , in many ways realistic , endowed -- like Stalin -- with considerable powers of dissimulation , capable of playing his cards very close to his chest when he so desired , yet bold and resolute in his decisions , and possessing one gift Stalin did not possess : The ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word '' .
Two criticisms of this generally admirable and fascinating book involve the treatment of wartime diplomacy which is jagged at the edges -- there is no mention of the Potsdam Conference or the Morgenthau Plan .
And in a concluding chapter about America's stance in the contemporary world , one senses certain misplacements of emphasis and a failure to come to grips with the baffling riddle of our time : How to deal with a wily and aggressive enemy without appeasement and without war .
Mr. Kennan , who has recently abandoned authorship for a new round of diplomacy as the recently appointed American ambassador to Yugoslavia , is not the only man who finds it easier to portray the past than to prescribe for the future .
In `` Donnybrook '' , there is quite a different Eire , a rural land where singing , dancing , fist-fighting and romancing are the thing .
By and large , Robert McEnroe's adaptation of Maurice Walsh's film , `` The Quiet Man '' , provides the entertainment it set out to , and we have a lively musical show if not a superlative one .
This is the tale of one John Enright , an American who has accidentally killed a man in the prize ring and is now trying to forget about it in a quiet place where he may become a quiet man .
But Innesfree , where Ellen Roe Danaher and her bullying brother , Will , live , is no place for a man who will not use his fists .
So Enright's courting of the mettlesome Ellen is impeded considerably , thereby providing the tale which is told .
Then there is a matchmaker , one Mikeen Flynn , a role for which Eddie Foy was happily selected .
Art Lund , a fine big actor with a great head of blond hair and a good voice , impersonates Enright .
Joan Fagan , a fiery redhead who can impress you that she has a temper whether she really has one or not , plays Ellen , and sings the role very well , too .
Then there are a pair of old biddies played by Grace Carney and Sibly Bowan who may be right off the shelf of stock Irish characters , but they put such a combination of good will and malevolence into their parts that they're quite entertaining .
And in the role of Will Danaher , Philip Bosco roars and sneers sufficiently to intimidate not only one American but the whole British army , if he chose .
It sometimes threatens to linger in the memory after the final curtain , and some of it , such as the catchy `` Sez I '' , does .
`` A Toast To The Bride '' , sung by Clarence Nordstrom , playing a character called Old Man Toomey , is quite simple , direct and touching .
So is that of the limber company of lasses who whirl and glide and quickstep under Jack Cole's expert choreographic direction .
Rouben Ter-Arutunian , in his stage settings , often uses the scrim curtain behind which Mr. Cole has placed couples or groups who sing and set the mood for the scenes which are to follow .
There is no reason why most theatergoers should not have a pretty good time at `` Donnybrook '' , unless they are permanently in the mood of Enright when he sings about how easily he could hate the lovable Irish .
We can all breathe more easily this morning -- more easily and joyously , too -- because Joshua Logan has turned the stage show , `` Fanny '' , into a delightful and heart-warming film .
The task of taking the raw material of Marcel Pagnol's original trio of French films about people of the waterfront in Marseilles and putting them again on the screen , after their passage through the Broadway musical idiom , was a delicate and perilous one , indeed .
More than the fans of Pagnol's old films and of their heroic star , the great Raimu , were looking askance at the project .
But now the task is completed and the uncertainty resolved with the opening of the English-dialogue picture at the Music Hall yesterday .
Some of the New York Philharmonic musicians who live in the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow .
Paul Paray , rounding out his current stint with the orchestra , is a solid musician , and the Philharmonic plays for him .
Their collaboration in the Beethoven Second Symphony was lucid , intelligent and natural sounding .
The Franck symphonic poem , `` Psyche '' , is a lush , sweet-sounding affair that was pleasant to encounter once again .
And in the Prokofieff C major Piano Concerto , with Zadel Skolovsky as soloist , he was an admirable partner .
An impressive technician , Mr. Skolovsky has fine rhythm , to boot .
But granted all this , one still would have liked to have heard a little more tonal nuance than Mr. Skolovsky supplied .
A new work on the program was Nikolai Lopatnikoff's `` Festival Overture '' , receiving its first New York hearing .
Snow or no , the fans were present in force at the Metropolitan Opera last night for a performance of the Ponchielli work .
His wicked deeds were carried on by Anselmo Colzani , who was taking the part for the first time with the company .
Regina Resnik as Laura and Cesare Siepi as Alvise also were new to the cast , but only with respect to this season ; ;
Laura is a good role for Miss Resnik , and she gave it force , dramatic color and passion .
Eileen Farrell in the title role , Mignon Dunn as La Cieca and Richard Tucker as Enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season , and all contributed to a vigorous performance .
If only they and Fausto Cleva in the pit had got together a bit more .
`` Melodious birds sing madrigals '' saith the poet and no better description of the madrigaling of the Deller Consort could be imagined .
Their Vanguard album Madrigal Masterpieces ( BG 609 ; ;
It also makes a fine introduction to the international art form with good examples of Italian and English madrigals plus several French `` chansons '' .
Even after Elizabethan traditions were weakened by the Cromwellian interregnum , the practice of singing together -- choruses , catches and glees -- always flourished .
The English never again developed a strong native music that could obliterate the traces of an earlier great age the way , say , the opera in Italy blotted out the Italian madrigal .
Latter-day interest in Elizabethan singing dates well back into the nineteenth century in England , much ahead of similar revivals in other countries .
Naturally , Mr. Deller and the other singers in his troupe are most charming and elegant when they are squarely in their tradition and singing music by their countrymen : William Byrd , Thomas Morley and Thomas Tomkins .
Claude Jannequin's vocal description of a battle ( the French equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by Jannequin and Lassus .
Only with the more sensual , intense and baroque expressions of Marenzio , Monteverdi and Gesualdo does the singing seem a little superficial .
The elements of elegance and color in Jannequin are strong French characteristics .
Baroque instrumental music in Italy and Germany tends to be strong , lively , intense , controlled and quite abstract .
BAM is the unlikely name of a French recording company whose full label is Editions De La boite A Musique .
Sonates et Concerts Royaux of Couperin Le Grand occupy two disks ( LD056 and LD060 ) and reveal the impeccable taste and workmanship of this master -- delicate , flexible and gemlike .
The Concerts -- nos. 2 , 6 , 9 , 10 and 14 are represented -- are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the Italian sense .
The sonatas , `` La Francaise '' , `` La Sultane '' , `` L'Astree '' and `` L'Imperiale '' , are often more elaborately worked out and , in fact , show a strong Italian influence .
Couperin also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk called Musique Francaise Du 18e Siecle ( BAM LD 060 ) .
Jean-Marie LeClair still is remembered a bit , but Bodin De Beismortier , Corrette and Mondonville are hardly household words .
The Couperin `` La Steinkerque '' , with its battle music , brevity , wit and refined simplicity , already shakes off Corelli and points towards the mid-century elegances that ended the baroque era .
Rameau's Six Concerts En Sextuor , recorded by L'orchestre De Chambre Pierre Menet ( BAM LD 046 ) , turn out to be harpsichord pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself .
Maitres Allemands Des 17e et 18e Siecles contains music by Pachelbel , Buxtehude , Rosenmueller and Telemann , well performed by the Ensemble Instrumental Sylvie Spycket ( BAM LD 035 ) .
Rococo music -- a lot of it -- was played in Carnegie Recital Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts .
Works by J. C. Bach , Anton Craft , Joseph Haydn , Giuseppe Sammartini , Comenico Dragonetti and J. G. Janitsch were performed by seven instrumentalists including Anabel Brieff , flutist , Josef Marx , oboist , and Robert Conant , pianist and harpsichordist .
Since rococo music tends to be pretty and elegant above all , it can seem rather vacuous to twentieth-century ears that have grown accustomed to the stress and dissonances of composers from Beethoven to Boulez .
Ellie Mao , soprano , and Frederick Fuller , baritone , presented a program of folksongs entitled `` East Meets West '' in Carnegie Recital Hall last night .
They were accompanied by Anna Mi Lee , pianist .
Songs from China and Japan were reserved exclusively for Miss Mao , who is a native of China , and those of the British Isles were sung by Mr. Fuller , who is English by birth .
On the contrary , Miss Mao and Mr. Fuller chose many of their arrangements from the works of composers such as Mendelssohn , Dvorak , Canteloube , Copland and Britten .
What was omitted from `` A Neglected Education '' were those essentials known as `` the facts of life '' .
Chabrier's little one-act operetta , presented yesterday afternoon at Town Hall , is a fragile , precious little piece , very French , not without wit and charm .
The poor uneducated newlywed , a certain Gontran De Boismassif , has his problems in getting the necessary information .
Arlene Saunders was charming as poor Gontran .
Benita Valente was delightful as the young wife and John Parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring .
The work was presented as the final event in the Town Hall Festival of Music .
It was paired with a Darius Milhaud opera , `` The Poor Sailor '' , set to a libretto by Jean Cocteau , a kind of Grand Guignol by the sea , a sailor returns , unrecognized , and gets done in by his wife .
I make this observation about the lady , Miss Judy Garland , because she brought up the subject herself in telling a story about a British female reporter who flattered her terribly in London recently and then wrote in the paper the next day :
`` Judy Garland has arrived in London .
Things like `` When You're Smiling '' , `` Almost Like Being In Love '' , `` Do It Again '' , `` Born To Wander '' , `` Alone Together '' , `` Who Cares ? ?
'' , `` Puttin' On The Ritz '' , `` How Long Has This Been Going On ? ?
'' And her own personal songs like `` The Man That Got Away '' , and the inevitable `` Over The Rainbow '' .
She had held to the letter of her contract and didn't come onto the stage until well after 4 p.m. , the appointed hour , although the Music at Newport people had tried to get the program underway at 3 .
Then there was a bad delay in getting Mort Lindsey's 30-piece orchestra wedged into its chairs .
There also came a brief contretemps with the sound mixers who made the mistake of being overheard during a quiet moment near the conclusion of `` Do It Again '' , and she made the tart observation that `` I never saw so much moving about in an audience '' .
But it didn't take Judy Garland , showman , long to realize that this sort of thing was par for the course at Newport and that you have to learn to live with it .
Sometimes they struck me as horribly over-arranged -- which was the way I felt about her `` Come Rain or Come Shine '' -- and sometimes they were just plain magnificent , like her shatteringly beautiful `` Beautiful Weather '' .
Her `` Rockabye Your Baby '' was as good as it can be done , and her really personal songs , like `` The Man That Got Away '' were deeply moving .
The audience wouldn't let her leave until it had heard `` Over The Rainbow '' -- although the fellow that kept crying for `` Get Happy '' had to go home unhappy , about that item anyway .
Several times it came near breaking , and there were in fact some lovely peals of thunder from Jerry Mulligan's big band , which is about as fine an aggregation as has come along in the jazz business since John Hammond found Count Basie working in a Kansas City trap .
But what is equally impressive is the delicacy and wonderful lyric quality of both the band and Mulligan's baritone sax in a fragile ballad like Bob Brookmeyer's arrangement of `` Django's Castle '' .
For subtle swinging rhythms , I could admire intensely Mulligan's version of `` Weep '' , and the fireworks went on display in `` 18 Carrots For Robert '' , a sax tribute to Johnny Hodges .
There was considerable contrast between this Mulligan performance and that of Art Blakey and The Jazz Messengers , who are able to generate a tremendous sound for such a small group .
A few drops of rain just before midnight , when Sarah Vaughan was in the midst of her first number , scattered the more timid members of the audience briefly , but at this hour and with Sarah on the stand , most of the listeners didn't care whether they got wet .
The evening program was opened by the Jazz Three , a Newport group consisting of Steve Budieshein on bass , Jack Warner , drums , and Don Cook , piano .
This was a continuation of a good idea which was first tried out Saturday night when the Eddie Stack group , also local talent , went on first .
The Jazz Three displayed their sound musicianship , not only in their own chosen set , but as the emergency accompanists for Al Minns & Leon James , the superb jazz dancers who have now been Newport performers for three successive years , gradually moving up from a morning seminar on the evolution of the blues to a spot on the evening program .
Julie Wilson , a vigorous vocalist without many wild twists , sang a set , a large part of which consisted of such seldom heard old oldies as `` Hard-Hearted Hannah , The Vamp Of Savannah '' , and the delightful `` Sunday '' .
She frosted the cake with the always reliable `` Bill Bailey '' .
From this taste of the 1920s , we leaped way out to Stan Getz's private brand of progressive jazz , which did lovely , subtle things for `` Baubles , Bangles And Beads '' , and a couple of ballards .
George Shearing took over with his well disciplined group , a sextet consisting of vibes , guitar , bass , drums , Shearing's piano and a bongo drummer .
He met with enthusiastic audience approval , especially when he swung from jazz to Latin American things like the Mambo .
A very casual , pleasant program -- one of those easy-going things that make Newport's afternoon programs such a relaxing delight -- was held again under sunny skies , hot sun , and a fresh breeze for an audience of at least a couple of thousands who came to Newport to hear music rather than go to the beach .
Divided almost equally into two parts , it consisted of `` The Evolution Of The Blues '' , narrated by Jon Hendricks , who had presented it last year at the Monterey , Calif. , Jazz Festival , and an hour-long session of Maynard Ferguson and his orchestra , a blasting big band .
Tracing the blues from its African roots among the slaves who were brought to this country and the West Indies , he stressed the close relationship between the early jazz forms and the music of the Negro churches .
To help him on this religious aspect of primitive jazz he had `` Big '' Miller , as a preacher-singer and Hannah Dean , Gospel-singer , while Oscar Brown Jr. , an extremely talented young man , did a slave auctioneer's call , a field-hands' work song , and a beautifully sung Negro lullaby , `` Brown Baby '' , which was one of the truly moving moments of the festival .
One of those delightful surprise additions , which so frequently occur in jazz programs , was an excellent stint at the drums by the great Joe Jones , drumming to `` Old Man River '' , which seems to have been elected the favorite solo for the boys on the batterie at this year's concerts .
Demonstrating the primitive African rhythmic backgrounds of the Blues was Michael Babatunde Olatunji , who plays such native drums as the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest .
Hendricks had Billy Mitchell , tenor sax ; ;
Jimmy Witherspoon , Blues singer ( and a good one ) , and the Ike Isaacs Trio , which has done such wonderful work for two afternoons now , helping him with the musical examples .
Pianists who are serious about their work are likely to know the interesting material contained in Schubert's Sonatas .
Music lovers who are not familiar with this literature may hear an excellent example , played for RCA by Emil Gilels .
He has chosen Sonata Op. 53 in Aj .
The male chorus of the Robert Shaw Chorale sings Sea Shanties in fine style .
Do you say chantey , as if the word were derived from the French word chanter , to sing , or do you say shanty and think of a roughly built cabin , which derives its name from the French-Canadian use of the word chantier , with one of its meanings given as a boat-yard ? ?
Either way , the Robert Shaw chorus sings them in fine style with every colorful word and its musical frame spelled out in terms of agreeable listening .
The London label offers an operatic recital by Ettore Bastianini , a baritone whose fame is international .
Murray Louis and his dance company appeared at the Henry Street Playhouse on Friday and Saturday evenings and Sunday afternoons in the premiere of his latest work , `` Signal '' , and the repetition of an earlier one , `` Journal '' .
`` Signal '' is choreographed for three male dancers to an electronic score by Alwin Nikolais .
Its abstract decor is by John Hultberg .
Here , as in `` Journal '' , Mr. Louis has given himself the lion's share of the dancing , and there is no doubt that he is capable of conceiving and executing a wide variety of difficult and arresting physical movements .
Indeed , both `` Journal '' and `` Signal '' qualify as instructive catalogues of modern-dance calisthenics .
It may be , of course , that Mr. Louis is consciously trying to create works that anticipate an age of total automation .
A brisk , satirical spoof of contemporary American mores entitled `` An American Journey '' was given its first New York performance at Hunter College Playhouse last night by the Helen Tamiris-Daniel Nagrin Dance Company .
Choreographed by Mr. Nagrin , the work filled the second half of a program that also offered the first New York showing of Miss Tamiris' `` Once Upon A Time '' as well as her `` Women's Song '' and Mr. Nagrin's `` Indeterminate Figure '' .
Eugene Lester assembled a witty and explicit score for `` An American Journey '' , and Malcolm McCormick gave it sprightly imaginative costumes .
Mr. Nagrin has described four `` places '' , each with its scenery and people , added two `` diversions '' , and concluded with `` A Toccata for the Young '' , a refreshingly underplayed interpretation of rock'n'roll dancing .
But we need not mind too much , because Mr. Nagrin has expressed it through movement that is diverting and clever almost all the way .
Miss Tamiris' `` Once Upon A Time '' is a problem piece about a man and a woman and the three `` figures '' that bother them somehow .
The music here , Russell Smith's `` Tetrameron '' , sounded good .
All the performances of the evening were smooth and assured , and the sizable company , with Mr. Nagrin and Marion Scott as its leading dancers , seemed to be fine shape .
The Symphony Of The Air , greatly assisted by Van Cliburn , last night got its seven-concert Beethoven cycle at Carnegie Hall off to a good start .
This news , announced by Jerome Toobin , the orchestra's administrative director , brought applause from the 2,800 persons who filled the hall .
They showed they were glad that Carnegie would have a major orchestra playing there so often next season to take up the slack with the departure to Lincoln Center of the New York Philharmonic , the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Boston Symphony .
This season the orchestra has already taken a step toward the suburbs in that it is giving six subscription concerts for the Orchestral Society of Westchester in the County Center in White Plains .
The details of the suburban concerts next season , and the centers in which they will be given , will be announced later , Mr. Toobin said .
The concertos that Van Cliburn has been associated with in New York since his triumphant return from Russia in 1958 have been the Tchaikovsky , the Rachmaninoff Third , and the Prokofieff Third .
It was pleasant last night , therefore , to hear him do something else : a concerto he has recently recorded , `` The Emperor '' .
Mr. Cliburn gave the slow movement some of the quality of a Chopin Nocturne .
Mr. Wallenstein , who will lead all of the concerts in the cycle , also conducted the `` Leonore '' Overture No. 3 and the Fourth Symphony .
Igor Oistrakh will be the next soloist on Feb. 4 .
In the more casually constructed musicals of the Nineteen Twenties and Nineteen Thirties there would seem to have been less reason for eliminating a song of merit .
Yet there is the classic case of the Gershwins' `` The Man I Love '' .
Deemed too static when it was first heard in `` Lady Be Good '' in Philadelphia in 1924 , it was dropped from the score .
It was heard again in Philadelphia in 1927 in the first version of `` Strike Up The Band '' and again abandoned shortly before the entire show was given up .
It finally reached Broadway in the second and successful version of `` Strike Up The Band '' in 1929 .
( Still another song in `` Strike Up The Band '' -- `` I've Got A Crush On You '' -- was retrieved from a 1928 failure , `` Treasure Girl '' .
Like the Gershwins , Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart were loath to let a good song get away from them .
If one of Mr. Rodgers' melodies seemed to deserve a better fate than interment in Boston or the obscurity of a Broadway failure , Mr. Hart was likely to deck it out with new lyrics to give it a second chance in another show .
Several of these double entries have been collected by Ben Bagley and Michael McWhinney , along with Rodgers and Hart songs that disappeared permanently en route to New York and others that reached Broadway but have not become part of the constantly heard Rodgers and Hart repertory , in a delightfully refreshing album , Rodgers And Hart Revisited ( Spruce Records , 505 Fifth Avenue , New York ) .
Among the particular gems in this collection is the impudent opening song of `` The Garrick Gaieties '' , an impressive forecast of the wit and melody that were to come from Rodgers and Hart in the years that followed ; ;
Dorothy Loudon's raucous listing of the attractions `` At The Roxy Music Hall '' from `` I Married An Angel '' ; ;
and the incisive style with which Charlotte Rae delivers the top-drawer Hart lyrics of `` I Blush '' , a song that was cut from `` A Connecticut Yankee '' .
Altogether fifteen virtually unknown Rodgers and Hart songs are sung by a quintet of able vocalists .
Turning to the current musical season on Broadway , the most widely acclaimed of the new arrivals , How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying , has been transferred to an original cast album ( R. C. A. Victor LOC 1066 ; ;
Robert Morse , singing with comically plaintive earnestness , carries most of the burden and is responsible for the high spots in Frank Loesser's score .
Rudy Vallee , who shares star billing with Mr. Morse , makes only two appearances .
He shares with Mr. Morse a parody of the college anthems he once sang while his second song is whisked away from him by Virginia Martin , a girl with a remarkably expressive yip in her voice .
In general , Mr. Loesser has done a more consistent job as lyricist than he has as composer .
Like Mr. Loesser , Jerry Herman is both composer and lyriist for Milk And Honey ( R. C. A. Victor LOC 1065 ; ;
For this story of an American couple who meet and fall in love in Israel , Mr. Herman has written songs that are warmly melodious and dance music that sparkles .
There are the full-bodied , resourceful voices of Robert Weede , Mimi Benzell and Tommy Rall to make the most of Mr. Herman's lilting melodies and , for an occasional change of pace , the bright humor of Molly Picon .
Mr. Herman has managed to mix musical ideas drawn from Israel and the standard American ballad style in a manner that stresses the basic tunefulness of both idioms .
Not content to create only the music and lyrics , Noel Coward also wrote the book and directed Sail Away ( Capitol WAO 1643 ; ;
stereo SWAO 1643 ) , a saga of life on a cruise ship that is not apt to be included among Mr. Coward's more memorable works .
The melodies flow along pleasantly , as Mr. Coward's songs usually do , but his lyrics have a tired , cut-to-a-familiar-pattern quality .
Elaine Stritch , who sings with a persuasively warm huskiness , belts some life into most of her songs , but the other members of the cast sound as lukewarm as Mr. Coward's songs .
With three fine Russian films in recent months on World War 2 , -- `` The House I Live In '' , `` The Cranes Are Flying '' and `` Ballad Of A Soldier '' -- we had every right to expect a real Soviet block-buster in `` The Day The War Ended '' .
The Artkino presentation , with English titles , opened on Saturday at the Cameo Theatre .
Make no mistake , this Gorky Studio drama is a respectable import -- aptly grave , carefully written , performed and directed .
In describing the initial Allied occupation of a middle-sized German city , the picture has color , pictorial pull and genuinely moving moments .
Told strictly from the viewpoint of the Russian conquerors , the film compassionately peers over the shoulders of a smitten Soviet couple , at both sides of the conflict's aftermath .
It's the old story , war or no war , and more than one viewer may recall Hollywood's `` Titanic '' , several seasons back , when the paramount concern was for the marital discord of a society dilettante .
Under Yakov Segal's direction , it begins stirringly , as crouching Soviet and Nazi troops silently scan each other , waiting for the first surrender gesture .
Ring Of Bright Water , by Gavin Maxwell .
`` Ring Of Bright Water '' by Gavin Maxwell is just that -- a haunting , warmly personal chronicle of a man , an otter , and a remote cottage in the Scottish West Highlands .
`` He has married me with a ring of bright water '' , begins the Kathleen Raine poem from which Maxwell takes his title , and it is this mystic bond between the human and natural world that the author conveys .
The place is Camusfearna , the site of a long-vanished sea-village opposite the isle of Skye .
How Maxwell recounts his first coming to Camusfearna , his furnishing the empty house with beach-drift , the subtle changes in season over ten years , is a moving experience .
There is Mijbil , an otter who travelled with Maxwell -- and gave Maxwell's name to a new species -- from the Tigris marshes to his London flat .
This is not only a compliment to Mijbil , of whom there are a fine series of photographs and drawings in the book , but to the author who has catalogued the saga of a frightened otter cub's journey by plane from Iraq to London , then by train ( where he lay curled in the wash basin playing with the water tap ) to Camusfearna , with affectionate detail .
But then , through a strange coincidence , Maxwell manages to acquire Idal , a female otter , and the fascinating story starts once more .
One is not sure who emerges as the main personality of this book -- Mijbil , with his rollicking ways , or Maxwell himself , poet , portrait painter , writer , journalist , traveller and zoologist , sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an unusual way of life , in a language at once lyrical and forceful , vivid and unabashed .
Now Gavin Maxwell's Ring Of Bright Water has widened to enchant the world .
-- The performances of the Comedie Francaise are the most important recent events in the New York theater .
The directors of the Comedie do not respond to adverse notices in as docile and subservient a manner as the Broadway producers who , in two instances this season , closed their plays after one performance .
In France , novel approaches to the classic French plays are frequently attempted .
So far as I know , the Comedie has never put Moliere's people in the costumes of the 20th century , but they do reinterpret plays and characters .
Last season , the Comedie's two principal experiments came to grief , and , in consequence , we can expect fairly soon to see still newer productions of Racine's `` Phedre '' and Moliere's `` School For Wives '' .
The new `` Phedre '' was done in 17th century setting , instead of ancient Greek ; ;
The new `` School For Wives '' was interpreted according to a principle that is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy -- the idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character .
Among the Moliere specialists of some years ago , Louis Jouvet tried to humanize some of the clowns , while Fernand Ledoux , often performing at the Comedie , made them more gross than Moliere may have intended .
Apparently , Jouvet and Ledoux attempted just these dissimilar approaches in the role of Arnolphe in `` The School For Wives '' .
I say `` apparently '' although I saw Jouvet as Arnolphe when he visited this country shortly before his death ; ;
one influential French critic remarked : `` Pity for Arnolphe comes with age '' .
Accordingly , at the Comedie last year , Jean Meyer played a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy .
Wisely , the Comedie has brought Moliere's `` Tartuffe '' on its tour and has left `` The School For Wives '' at home .
Jouvet played him as a sincere zealot , and Ledoux , at the Comedie , made him a gross buffoon , or so the historians tell us .
Louis Seigner , who formerly played the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux , is the Tartuffe of the present production , which he himself directed .
We are often told that the Comedie has , unfortunately , life-contracts with old actors who are both mediocre and lazy , drawing their pay without much acting but probably doing real service to the Comedie by staying off the stage .
among his other parts are the leads in `` The Bourgeois Gentleman '' and `` The Imaginary Invalid '' .
In Moliere's farce , `` The Tricks Of Scapin '' , Robert Hirsch undertakes another of the great roles .
And Django owed much to Louis Armstrong .
He told once of how he switched his style of playing to jazz after listening to two old Armstrong records he bought in the Flea Market in Paris .
Django , who was born Jean Baptiste Reinhardt in Belgium and who died in 1953 in France , was an extraordinary man .
`` Djangology '' , made up of tracks he recorded with Stephane Grappelly and the Quintet of the Hot Club of France .
They play : `` Minor Swing '' , `` Honeysuckle Rose '' , `` Beyond The Sea '' , `` Bricktop '' , `` Heavy Artillery '' , `` Djangology '' , `` After You've Gone '' , `` Where Are You , My Love '' ? ?
`` I Saw Stars '' , `` Lover Man '' , `` Menilmontant '' and `` Swing 42 '' .
He dates back to the days before the first sailing ship pulled into New Orleans .
Good Time Jazz has released a nice two-record album which he made .
He is starred against Alvin Alcorn , trumpet ; ;
Wellman Braud , bass , and Minor Hall , drums .
The set contains `` High Society '' , `` Do What Ory Say '' , `` Down Home Rag '' , `` Careless Love '' , Jazz Me Blues '' , `` Weary Blues '' , `` Original Dixieland One-Step '' , `` Bourbon Street Parade '' , `` Panama '' , `` Toot , Toot , Tootsie '' , `` Oh Didn't He Ramble '' , `` Beale Street Blues '' , `` Maryland , My Maryland '' , `` 1919 Rag '' , `` Eh , La Bas '' , `` Mood Indigo '' , and `` Bugle Call Rag '' .
Mischa Elman shared last night's Lewisohn Stadium concert with three American composers .
His portion of the program -- and a big portion it was -- consisted of half the major nineteenth-century concertos for the violin : to wit , the Mendelssohn and the Tchaikovsky .
There were 8,000 persons at the Stadium who can tell their grandchildren that they heard Elman .
The American part of the evening consisted of Paul Creston's Dance Overture , William Schuman's `` Chester '' From `` New England Triptych '' and two works of Wallingford Riegger , Dance Rhythms , Op. 58 , and a Romanza For Strings , Op. 56A .
The Creston is purely a potboiler , with Spanish , English , French and American dances mixed into the stew .
The Riegger , with its Latin hesitation bounce , is just this side of the pale ; ;
The Schuman `` Chester '' takes off from an old William Billings tune with rousing woodwind and brass effect .
We have Alfredo Antonini to thank for this healthy change of diet as well as the lively performances of the Stadium Symphony .
A woman who undergoes artificial insemination against the wishes of her husband is the unlikely heroine of `` A Question Of Adultery '' , yesterday's new British import at the Apollo .
With Julie London enacting the central role with husky-voiced sincerity , the longsuffering heroine is at least attractive .
The actor plays his role glumly under the lurid direction of Don Chaffey , as do Basil Sydney as his unsympathetic father and Anton Diffring as an innocent bystander .
-- For its final change of bill in its London season , the Leningrad State Kirov Ballet chose tonight to give one of those choreographic miscellanies known as a `` gala program '' at the Royal Opera House , Covent Garden .
Alexandre Livshitz repeated a fantastic technical bit from the closing number , `` Taras Bulba '' , but even then there was a substantial number of diehards who seemed determined not to go home at all .
Only a plea from the house manager , John Collins , finally broke up the party .
The `` Taras Bulba '' excerpt is a rousing version of Gogol's Ukrainian folk-tale choreographed by Bo Fenster to music of Soloviev-Sedoi .
Yuri Soloviev , Oleg Sokolov , Alexei Zhitkov , Lev Sokolov , Yuri Korneyev and Mr. Livshitz were the chief soloists , but everybody on stage was magnificent .
Its ballerina , Olga Moiseyeva , performs simple miracles of beauty , and Ludmilla Alexeyeva , Inna Korneyeva and Gabrielle Komleva make up a threesome of exquisite accomplishments .
They consisted of a new arrangement of `` Nutcracker '' excerpts danced stunningly by Irina Kolpakova and Mr. Sokolev , with a large ensemble ; ;
a winning little `` Snow Maiden '' variation by the adorable Galina Kekisheva ; ;
two of those poetic adagios in Greek veils ( and superb esthetic acrobacy ) by Alla Osipenko and Igor Chernishev in one case and Inna Zubkovskaya and Yuri Kornevey in the other ; ;
a stirring `` Flames Of Paris '' pas de deux by Xenia Ter-Stepanova and Alexandre Pavlovsky , and a lovely version of Fokine's `` Le Cygne '' by Olga Moiseyeva , which had to be repeated .
A year ago today , when the Democrats were fretting and frolicking in Los Angeles and John F. Kennedy was still only an able and ambitious Senator who yearned for the power and responsibility of the Presidency , Theodore H. White had already compiled masses of notes about the Presidential campaign of 1960 .
As the pace of the quadrennial American political festival accelerated , Mr. White took more notes .
He traveled alternately with Mr. Kennedy and with Richard M. Nixon .
He assembled quantities of facts about the nature of American politics in general , as well as about the day-to-day course of the closest Presidential election in American history .
how little we know of what there is to be known is made humiliatingly clear by Mr. White in `` The Making Of The President 1960 '' .
As a dramatic narrative `` The Making Of The President 1960 '' is continuously engrossing .
The author begins this volume with a close-up of Mr. Kennedy , his family and his entourage waiting for the returns .
He then switches back to a consideration of the seven principal Presidential hopefuls : five Democrats -- Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Senator Stuart Symington , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Adlai E. Stevenson and Mr. Kennedy -- and two Republicans -- Governor Rockefeller and Mr. Nixon .
Then , in chronological order , Mr. White covers the primary campaigns , the conventions and the Presidential campaign itself .
He frequently cites intimate details that seem to come straight from the horse's mouth , from numerous insiders and from Mr. Kennedy himself ; ;
`` Rarely in American history has there been a political campaign that discussed issues less or clarified them less '' , says Mr. White .
Although a skillful politician and a courageous and honest man , Mr. Nixon , Mr. White believes , ignored his own top-level planners , wasted time and effort in the wrong regions , missed opportunities through indecision and damaged his chances on television .
the least inspiring candidate since Alfred M. Landon '' .
Mr. Kennedy , Mr. White believes , `` had mastered politics on so many different levels that no other American could match him '' .
Calm , dignified , composed , `` superbly eloquent '' , Mr. Kennedy always knew everything about everybody .
Mr. White admires him profoundly and leaves no doubt that he is a Democrat himself who expects Mr. Kennedy to be a fine President .
Throughout `` The Making Of A President '' Mr. White shows wonderfully well how the pressures pile up on candidates , how decisions have constantly to be made , how fatigue and illness and nervous strain wear candidates down , how subordinates play key roles .
`` The root question in American politics is always : Who's the Man to See ? ?
Nostalgia week at Lewisohn Stadium , which had begun with the appearance of the 70-year-old Mischa Elman on Tuesday night , continued last night as Lily Pons led the list of celebrities in an evening of French operatic excerpts .
No orchestra , however , could be expected to follow a singer through quite as many adventures with pitch as Miss Pons encountered last night .
One such moment came in the breathtaking way Miss Pons sang the cadenza to Meyerbeer's `` Shadow Song '' .
Sharing the program was the young French-Canadian tenor Richard Verreau , making his stadium debut on this occasion .
Later on this problem vanished , and the `` Flower Song '' from Bizet's `` Carmen '' was beautifully and intelligently projected .
Not so well known is the growth of broadcasting operations aimed wholly or partly at Negro listeners -- an audience which , in the United States , comprises some 19,000,000 people with $20,000,000,000 to spend each year .
These and other figures and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor magazine , a trade publication for radio and TV advertisers .
For 10 years Sponsor has issued an annual survey of the size and characteristics of the Negro market and of successful techniques for reaching this market through radio .
`` The forgotten 15 million '' -- as Sponsor tagged the Negro market in its first survey -- has become a better-remembered 19 million .
In the last decade the number of Negro-appeal radio program hours has risen at least 15 per cent , and the number of Negro-appeal stations has increased 30 per cent , according to a research man quoted by Sponsor .
A year ago the Negro Radio Association was formed to spur research which the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business .
Also , the state with the largest number of Negroes is New York -- not in the South at all .
In New York City , WLIB boasts `` more community service programs than any other Negro station '' and `` one of the largest Negro news staffs in America '' .
And WWRL's colorful mobile unit , cruising predominately Negro neighborhoods , is a frequent reminder of that station's round-the-clock dedication to nonwhite interests .
A half-dozen other stations in the New York area also bid for attention of the city's Negro population , up about 50 per cent in the past decade .
In all big cities outside the South , and even in small towns within the South , radio stations can be found beaming some or all of their programs at Negro listeners .
The Keystone Broadcasting System's Negro network includes 360 affiliated stations , whose signals reach more than half the total U.S. Negro population .
Sponsor quotes John McLendon of the McLendon-Ebony station group as saying that the Southern Negro is becoming conscious of quality and `` does not wish to be associated with radio which is any way degrading to his race ; ;
The sociological impact is perhaps most eloquently summed up in this quotation of J. Walter Carroll of KSAN , San Francisco :
`` Negro-appeal radio is more important to the Negro today , because it provides a direct and powerful mirror in which the Negro can hear and see his ambitions , achievements and desires .
Presentation of `` The Life And Times Of John Sloan '' in the Delaware Art Center here suggests a current nostalgia for human values in art .
Staged by way of announcing the gift of a large and intimate Sloan collection by the artist's widow , Helen Farr Sloan , to the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts , the exhibition presents a survey of Sloan's work .
From early family portraits , painted before he entered the schools of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts , the chronology extends to a group of paintings executed in his last year ( 1951 ) and still part of his estate .
Obviously Sloan's early years were influenced by his close friend Robert Henri .
Sloan created such works for newspaper supplements before syndication threw him out of a job and sent him to roam the streets of New York , thereby building for America an incomparable city survey from paintings of McSorley's Saloon to breezy clotheslines on city roofs .
One of the most appealing of the rooftop canvases is `` Sun And Wind On The Roof '' , with a woman and child bracing themselves against flapping clothes and flying birds .
Although there are landscapes in the show ( one of the strongest is a vista of `` Gloucester Harbor '' in 1915 ) , the human element was the compelling factor in Sloan's art .
Significant are such canvases as `` Bleeker Street , Saturday Night '' , with its typically American crowd ( Sloan never went abroad ) ; ;
or `` Carmine Theater , 1912 '' , the only canvas with an ash can ( and foraging dog ) , although Sloan was a member of the famous `` Eight '' , and of the so-called `` Ash-Can School '' , a term he resented .
The exhibition touches briefly on his sojourn in the Southwest ( `` Koshare in the Dust '' , a vigorous Indian dance , and landscapes suggest the influence of western color on his palette ) .
There are 151 items in the Wilmington show , including one painting by each member of the `` Eight '' , as well as work by Sloan's friends and students .
All belong to the collection being given to Wilmington over a period of years by Mrs. Sloan , who has cherished such revelatory items ever since she first studied with Sloan at the Art Students League , New York , in the 1920's .
To enable students and the public to spot Sloan forgeries , the Delaware Art Center ( according to its director , Bruce St. John ) will maintain a complete file of photographs of all Sloan works , as well as a card index file .
Any musician playing Beethoven here , where Beethoven was born , is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care .
Robert Riefling , who gave the only piano recital of the recently concluded 23rd Beethoven Festival , penetrated deep into the spirit of the style .
The 32 C Minor Variations with which he opened moved fluently yet logically from one to another , leaving the right impression of abundance under discipline .
The D Minor Sonata , Op. 31 No. 2 , introduced by dynamically shaped arpeggios , was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative -- single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way toward the idea to come .
Two late Sonatas , Op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the Op. 111 Adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious .
The two were separated from each other by the Six Bagatelles of Op. 126 .
Herr Riefling , in everything he gave his large Beethoven Hall audience , proved himself as an interpreter of unobtrusive authority .
Volker Wangenheim , who conducted Bonn's Stadtisches Orchester on the following evening , made one more conscious of the process of interpretation .
But he weighted the Eighth Symphony , at times , with a shuddering subjectivity which seemed considerably at odds with the music .
He might have been hoping , to all appearances , that this relatively sunny symphony , in conjunction with the Choral Fantasy at the end of the program , could amount to something like the Ninth ; ;
The conductor's preoccupation with the business of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness , as with the first orchestra entrance in the Fourth Piano Concerto , but when he put his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed , it did so with plenty of spring .
The concerto's soloist , Hans Richter-Haaser , played with compensatory ease and economy , though without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on the previous evening by Herr Riefling .
Everybody returned after intermission for the miscellaneous sweepings of the Fantasy For Piano , Chorus , And Orchestra In C Minor , made up by its composer to fill out one of his programs .
The entrance of the Stadtisches Gesangverein ( Bonn's civic chorus ) was worth all the waiting , however , as the young Rhenish voices finally brought the music to life .
The last program of this festival , which during two weeks had sampled most compositional categories , brought the Cologne Rundfunk-Sinfonie-Orchester and Rundfunkchor to Bonn's gold-filled hall for a performance of the Missa Solemnis .
In the autumn of 1959 , the British Broadcasting Corporation presented a series of talks by four scientists competent in cosmology .
The participants were Professor H. Bondi , professor of mathematics at King's College , London ; ;
Dr. W. B. Bonnor , reader in mathematics at Queen Elizabeth College , London ; ;
Dr. R. A. Lyttleton , a lecturer at St. John's College , Cambridge , and a reader in theoretical astronomy at the University of Cambridge ; ;
and Dr. G. J. Whitrow , reader in applied mathematics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .
The programs were so well received by the British public that the arguments have been published in a totally engrossing little book called , `` Rival Theories Of Cosmology '' .
Because of this Dr. Bonnor holds that the universe is becoming more thinly populated by stars and whatever else is there .
For new galaxies to be created , Professor Bondi declares , it would only be necessary for a single hydrogen atom to be created in an area the size of your living room once every few million years .
The charges of the electron and proton are believed to be exactly equal and opposite , but Dr. Lyttleton is not so sure .
Suppose , says Dr. Lyttleton , the proton has a slightly greater charge than the electron ( so slight it is presently immeasurable ) .
`` Roots '' , the new play at the brand-new Mayfair Theater on 46th St. which has been made over from a night club , is about the intellectual and spiritual awakening of an English farm girl .
Highly successful in England before its transfer to New York , most of `` Roots '' is as relentlessly dour as the trappings of the small new theater are gaudy .
Only in its final scene , where Beatie Bryant ( Mary Doyle ) shakes off the disappointment of being jilted by her intellectual lover and proclaims her emancipation do we get much which makes worthwhile the series of boorish rustic happenings we have had to watch for most of the first two and one-half acts .
The burden of Mr. Wesker's message is that people living close to the soil ( at least in England ) are not the happy , fine , strong , natural , earthy people city-bred intellectuals imagine .
They care no more for politics , says Mr. Wesker , than they do for a symphony .
But this is a theme which does not take so much time to state as Mr. Wesker dedicates to it .
Miss Doyle as Beatie has a great fund of animal spirits , a strong voice and a warm smile .
She is just home from a sojourn in London where she has become the sweetheart of a young fellow named Ronnie ( we never do see him ) and has been subjected to a first course in thinking and appreciating , including a dose of good British socialism .
But while she is able to tell her retarded family about the new world she has seen open before her , Ronnie has not been able to observe her progress , and instead of appearing at a family party to be looked over like a new bull , he sends Beatie a letter of dismissal .
Despite a too long sustained declamatory flight , this final speech is convincing , and we see why British audiences apparently were impressed by `` Roots '' .
There were several fairly good minor portraits in the play , including William Hansen's impersonation of a stubborn , rather pathetic father , and Katherine Squire's vigorous characterization of a farm mother who brooked no hifalutin' nonsense from her daughter , or anyone else .
But I am afraid Mr. Wesker's meat and potatoes dish isn't well seasoned enough for local audiences .
Shakespeare had a word for everything , even for the rain that disrupted Wednesday night's `` Much Ado About Nothing '' opening the season of free theatre in Central Park .
The New York Shakespeare Festival , which is using the Wollman Memorial Skating Rink while its theatre near the Belvedere is being completed , began bravely .
Joseph Papp , impassioned founder of the festival and director of `` Much Ado '' , had a vibrant , colorful production under way .
The barbed sallies of Beatrice and Benedick , so contemporary to a public inured to the humor of insult , raised chuckles .
The simple-minded comedy of Dogberry and Verges , also familiar in a day that responds easily to jokes skimmed off the top of writers' heads , evoked laughter .
The vivacity of the masquers' party at Leonato's palace , with the Spanish motif in the music and dancing in honor of the visiting Prince of Arragon , cast a spell of delight .
As `` Much Ado '' turned serious while the insipid Claudio rejected Hero at the altar , a sprinkle began to fall .
The grieving Hero and her father , Leonato , followed by the Friar , left the stage .
Beatrice ( Nan Martin ) and Benedick ( J. D. Cannon ) took their places on the stage .
In their very first speeches it was clear that Shakespeare , like a Nostradamus , had foreseen this moment .
Said Benedick : `` Lady Beatrice , have you wept all this while '' ? ?
Replied Beatrice : `` Yea , and I will weep a while longer '' .
The gallant company completed Act 4 , and got through part of Act 5 .
The Parks Department has done an admirable job of preparing the Wollman Rink for Shakespeare .
One could hardly blame Newbold Morris , the Parks Commissioner , for devoting so much grateful mention to the department's technicians who at short notice provided the stage with its rising platforms , its balcony , its generous wings and even its impressive trapdoors for the use of the villains .
Eldon Elder , who designed the stage , also created a gay , spacious set that blended attractively with the park background and Shakespeare's lighthearted mood .
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf sang so magnificently Saturday night at Hunter College that it seems a pity to have to register any complaints .
Put to the service of lieder of Schubert , Brahms , Strauss and Wolf in a dramatical and musical way , it made its effect with ease and precision .
Instead of her old confidence in the simplest , purest , most moving musical expression , Miss Schwarzkopf is letting herself be tempted by the classic sin of artistic pride -- that subtle vanity that sometimes misleads a great artist into thinking that he or she can somehow better the music by bringing to it something extra , some personal dramatic touch imposed from the outside .
Miss Schwarzkopf and her excellent pianist , John Wustman , often achieved the highest lyrical ideals of the lieder tradition .
The dance , dancers and dance enthusiasts ( 8,500 of them ) had a much better time of it at Lewisohn Stadium on Saturday night than all had had two nights earlier , when Stadium Concerts presented the first of two dance programs .
Alvin Ailey and Carmen De Lavallade appeared in the first New York performance of Mr. Ailey's `` Roots Of The Blues '' , a work given its premiere three weeks ago at the Boston Arts Festival .
Otherwise , the program included , as on Thursday , the Taras-Tchaikovsky `` Design For Strings '' , the Dollar-Britten `` Divertimento '' , the Dollar-De Banfield `` The Duel '' and the pas de deux from `` The Nutcracker '' .
Maria Tallchief and Erik Bruhn , who danced the `` Nutcracker '' pas de deux , were also seen in the Petipa-Minkus pas de deux from `` Don Quixote '' , another brilliant showpiece that displayed their technical prowess handsomely .
Among the other solo ballet dancers of the evening , Elisabeth Carroll and Ivan Allen were particularly impressive in their roles in `` The Duel '' , a work that depends so much upon the precision and incisiveness of the two principal combatants .
Mr. Ailey's `` Roots Of The Blues '' , an earthy and very human modern dance work , provided strong contrast to the ballet selections of the evening .
As Brother John Sellers sang five `` blues '' to the guitar and drum accompaniments of Bruce Langhorne and Shep Shepard , Mr. Ailey and Miss De Lavallade went through volatile dances that were by turns insinuating , threatening , contemptuous and ecstatic .
`` Roots Of The Blues '' may not be for gentle souls , but others should welcome its super-charged impact .
This somewhat cynical comment may be found in `` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' , a collection of travel essays by William Sansom , who would never consider staying home for long .
Mr. Sansom is English , bearded , formidably cultivated , the versatile author of numerous volumes of short stories , of novels and of pieces that are neither short stories nor travel articles but something midway between .
The only man alive who seems qualified by his learning , his disposition and his addiction to a baroque luxuriance of language to inherit the literary mantle of Sacheverell Sitwell , Mr. Sansom writes of foreign parts with a dedication to decoration worthy of a pastry chef creating a wedding cake for the marriage of a Hungarian beauty ( her third ) and an American multimillionaire ( his fourth ) .
There are sixteen essays in `` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' .
But , even if Mr. Sansom labors too hard to extract more refinements of meaning and feeling from his travel experiences than the limits of language allow , he still can charm and astound .
Mr. Sansom actually writes his with a nice ear for a gracefully composed sentence , with an intense relish in all the metaphorical resources of English , with a thick shower of sophisticated , cultural references .
This is an exact description of what Mr. Sansom does .
It is an over-all impression Mr. Sansom strives for , an impression compounded of visual details , of a savory mixture of smells , of much loving attention to architecture and scenery , of lights and shadows , of intangibles of atmosphere and of echoes of the past .
William Sansom writes only about Europe in this book and frequently of such familiar places as London , Vienna , the French Riviera and the Norwegian fjords .
This may not be true of many writers , but it certainly is true of Mr. Sansom .
So in these pages one can share his wonder at the traditional fiesta of St. Torpetius that still persists in St. Tropez ; ;
at the sun and the heat of Mediterranean lands , always much brighter and hotter to an Englishman than to an American used to summers in New York or Kansas City ; ;
at the supreme delights to be found in one of the world's finest restaurants , La Bonne Auberge , which is situated on the seacoast twenty miles west of the Nice airport ; ;
Mr. Sansom can be eloquent in a spectacular way which recalls ( to those who recall easily ) the statues of Bernini and the gigantic paintings of Tintoretto .
In one of his best essays Mr. Sansom expresses his enthusiasm for the many country mansions designed by Andrea Palladio himself that dot the environs of Vicenza .
How far that pedimented and pillared style has shed its influence Mr. Sansom reminds us thus :
`` The white colonnaded , cedar-roofed Southern mansion is directly traceable via the grey and buff stone of grey-skied England to the golden stucco of one particular part of the blue South , the Palladian orbit stretching out from Vicenza : the old mind of Andrea Palladio still smiles from behind many an old rocking chair on a Southern porch , the deep friezes of his architectonic music rise firm above the shallower freeze in the kitchen , his feeling for light and shade brings a glitter from a tall mint julep , his sense of columns framing the warm velvet night has brought together a million couple of mating lips '' .
`` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' is illustrated with numerous excellent photographs .
Yesterday it offered `` Poised For Violence '' , by Jean Reavey .
WBAI is on the right track : in the sound medium there has been excessive emphasis on music and news and there could and should be a place for theatre , as the Canadian and British Broadcasting Corporations continue to demonstrate .
Unfortunately , `` Poised For Violence '' was not the happiest vehicle with which to make the point .
Somewhere in Mrs. Reavey's play there is both protest and aspiration of merit .
Titled `` What's New In Music '' ? ?
The enterprising program is heard Saturday afternoons on radio station Aj .
The show is programed and written by the station's assistant continuity editor , Chuck Briefer .
Last Saturday's interesting melange included Ernst Toch , Karlheinz Stockhausen , Richard Yardumian and a brief excerpt from a new `` space '' opera by the Swedish composer , Karl-Birger Blomdahl .
Other Saturdays are devoted to studies of a selected American composer , a particular type of music or the music of a given country .
The Moiseyev Dance Company dropped in at Madison Square Garden last night for the first of four farewell performances before it brings its long American tour to a close .
It is not simply giving a repetition of the program it gave during its New York engagement earlier this season , but has brought back many of the numbers that were on the bill when it paid us its first visit and won everybody's heart .
The `` Suite Of Old Russian Dances '' that opened that inaugural program with the slow and modest entrance of the maidens and built steadily into typical Moiseyev vigor and warmth ; ;
the lovely ( and of course vigorous ) `` Polyanka '' or `` The Meadow '' ; ;
So , for that matter , are the newer dances -- the `` Kalmuk Dance '' with its animal movements , that genial juggling act by Sergei Tsvetkov called `` The Platter '' , the rousing and beautiful betrothal celebration called `` Summer '' , `` The Three Shepherds '' of Azerbaijan hopping up on their staffs , and , of course , the trenchant `` Rock 'n' Roll '' .
As autumn starts its annual sweep , few Americans and Canadians realize how fortunate they are in having the world's finest fall coloring .
The only other regions so blessed are the British Isles , western Europe , eastern China , southern Chile and parts of Japan , New Zealand and Tasmania .
Their autumn tints are all fairly low keyed compared with the fiery stabs of crimson , gold , purple , bronze , blue and vermilion that flame up in North America .
Late September finds Quebec's color at its peak , especially in the Laurentian hills and in the area south of the St. Lawrence River .
Ontario's foliage is most vivid from about Sept. 23 to Oct. 10 , with both Muskoka ( 100 miles north of Toronto ) and Haliburton ( 125 miles northwest of Toronto ) holding color cavalcades starting Sept. 23 .
In the Canadian Rockies , great groves of aspen are already glinting gold .
Vermont's sugar maples are scarlet from Sept. 25 to Oct. 15 , and often hit a height in early October .
New Hampshire figures its peak around Columbus Day and boasts of all its hardwoods including the yellow of the birches .
In western Massachusetts and northwest Connecticut , the Berkshires are at their vibrant prime the first week of October .
The Adirondacks blaze brightest in early October , choice routes being 9N from Saratoga up to Lake George and 73 and 86 in the Lake Placid area .
Farther south in New York there is a heavy haze of color over the Catskills in mid-October , notably along routes 23 and 23A .
About the same time the Alleghenies and Poconos in Pennsylvania are magnificent -- Renovo holds its annual Flaming Foliage Festival on Oct. 14 , 15 .
New Jersey's color varies from staccato to pastel all the way from the Delaware Water Gap to Cape May .
During the first half of October the Blue Ridge and other parts of the Appalachians provide a spectacle stretching from Maryland and West Virginia to Georgia .
The most brilliant displays are along the Skyline Drive above Virginia's Shenandoah Valley and throughout the Great Smokies between North Carolina and Tennessee .
Michigan , Wisconsin and Minnesota have many superb stretches of color which reach their height from the last few days of September well into October , especially in their northern sections , e.g. , Wisconsin's Vilas County whose Colorama celebration is Sept. 29-Oct. 8 .
In Wisconsin , take route 55 north of Shawano or routes 78 and 60 from Portage to Prairie Du Chien .
In Michigan , there is fine color on route 27 up to the Mackinac Straits , while the views around Marquette and Iron Mountain in the Upper Peninsula are spectacular .
In Minnesota , Arrowhead County and route 53 north to International Falls are outstanding .
Farther south , there are attractive patches all the way to the Ozarks , with some seasonal peaks as late as early November .
Illinois' Shawnee National Forest , Missouri's Iron County and the maples of Hiawatha , Kan. should be at their best in mid-October .
The Rockies have many `` Aspencades '' , which are organized tours of the aspen areas with frequent stops at vantage points for viewing the golden panoramas .
In Colorado , Ouray has its Fall Color Week Sept. 22-29 , Rye and Salida both sponsor Aspencades Sept. 24 , and Steamboat Springs has a week-long Aspencade Sept. 25-30 .
New Mexico's biggest is at Ruidoso Oct. 7 , 8 , while Alamogordo and Cloudcroft cooperate in similar trips Oct. 1 .
The Corn Palace at Mitchell , S. Dak. , `` the world's corniest building '' , has a carnival through Sept. 23 headlining the Three Stooges and Pee Wee Hunt .
The 1961 theme is the Dakota Territorial Centennial , with the pictures including the Lewis and Clark expedition , the first river steamboat , the 1876 gold rush , a little red schoolhouse on the prairie , and today's construction of large Missouri River reservoirs .
Longwood Gardens , near Kennett Square , Pa. ( about 12 miles from Wilmington , Del. ) , was developed and heavily endowed by the late Pierre S. Du Pont .
Every Wednesday night through Oct. 11 there will be an elaborate colored fountain display , with 229 nozzles throwing jets of water up to 130 feet .
Though the subject -- segregation in her native South -- has been thoroughly worked , Miss McCullers uses her poet's instinct and storyteller's skill to reaffirm her place at the very top of modern American writing .
With an art that almost conceals art , J. D. Salinger can create a fictional world so authentic that it hurts .
Here , in the most eagerly awaited novel of the season ( his first since The Catcher In The Rye , ) he tells of a college girl in flight from the life around her and the tart but sympathetic help she gets from her 25-year-old brother .
The Head Of Monsieur M. ,
A Matter Of Life And Death .
It is an engrossing commentary on a repressive , upper-middle-class New York way of life in the first part of this century .
This retelling by Louis Zara of the brief , anguished life of Stephen Crane -- poet and master novelist at 23 , dead at 28 -- is in novelized form but does not abuse its tragic subject .
Subtitled A Farmwife's Almanac Of Country Living , this is a gentle and nostalgic chronicle of the changing seasons seen through the clear , humorous eye of a Hoosier housewife and popular columnist .
Leningrad's Kirov Ballet , famous for classic purity of technique , begins its first U.S. tour in New York ( through Sept. 30 ) .
The Bayanihan Philippine Dance Company , with music and dances that depict the many facets of Filipino culture , opens its 60-city U.S. tour in San Francisco ( through Sept. 24 ) then , via one-night stands , moves on to Los Angeles ( Sept. 29 thru Oct. 1 ) .
With harvests in full swing , you can enjoy festivals for grapes at Sonoma , Calif. ( Sept. 22-24 ) , as well as for cranberries at Bandon , Ore. ( Sept. 28 thru Oct. 1 ) , for buckwheat at Kingwood , W. Va. ( Sept. 28-30 ) , sugar cane at New Iberia , La. ( Sept. 29 thru Oct. 1 ) and tobacco at Richmond , Va. ( Sept. 23-30 ) .
The mule is honored at Benson , N.C. ( Sept. 22 , 23 ) and at Boron , Calif. ( Sept. 24 thru Oct. 1 ) , while the legend of the Maid of the Mist is celebrated at Niagara Falls through the 24th .
The fine old mansions of U.S. Grant's old home town of Galena , Ill. are open for inspection ( Sept. 23 , 24 ) .
An archery tournament will be held at North Falmouth , Mass. ( Sept. 23 , 24 ) .
The 300th anniversaries of Staten Island ( through Sept. 23 ) and of Mamaroneck , N.Y. ( through Sept. 24 ) will both include parades and pageants .
This French film , set in Italy , is a summertime splurge in shock and terror all shot in lovely sunny scenery -- so breath-taking that at times you almost forget the horrors the movie is dealing with .
But slowly they take over as Alain Delon ( Life , Sept. 15 ) , playing a sometimes appealing but always criminal boy , casually tells a rich and foot-loose American that he is going to murder him , then does it even while the American is trying to puzzle out how Delon expects to profit from the act .
Maria goes all out as a Druid princess who gets two-timed by a Roman big shot .
The tenor lead , Franco Corelli , and La Scala cast under Maestro Tullio Serafin are all first rate .
In a raucous take-off on radio commercials , Singer Ray Stevens hawks a cure-all for neuritis , neuralgia , head-cold distress , beriberi , overweight , fungus , mungus and water on the knee .
Waterways are busy right now from the Virginia capes to the Texas coast .
And on northern shores indomitable sailors from Long Island to Lake Michigan will beat around the buoys in dozens of frostbite races .
Shore facilities are enormous -- Los Angeles harbors 5,000 boats , and Long Beach 3,000 -- but marinas are crowded everywhere .
New docks and ramps are being rushed at Playa Del Rey , Ventura , Dana Point , Oceanside and Mission Bay .
Inland , outboard motorists welcome cooler weather and the chance to buzz over Colorado River sandbars and Lake Mead .
Newest small-boat playground is the Salton Sea , a once-dry desert sinkhole which is now a salty lake 42 miles long and 235 feet below sea level .
In San Francisco Bay , winds are gusty and undependable during this season .
The Corinthian Yacht Club in Tiburon launches its winter races Nov. 5 .
Hurricane Carla damaged 70% of the marinas in the Galveston-Port Aransas area but fuel service is back to normal , and explorers can roam as far west as Port Isabel on the Mexican border .
Sailing activity is slowed down by Texas northers , but power cruisers can move freely , poking into the San Jacinto , Trinity and Brazos rivers ( fine tarpon fishing in the Brazos ) or pushing eastward to the pirate country of Barataria .
Off Grand Isle , yachters often visit the towering oil rigs .
The Mississippi Sound leads into a protected waterway running about 200 miles from Pascagoula to Apalachicola .
Memphis stinkpotters like McKellar Lake , inside the city limits , and sailors look for autumn winds at Arkabutla Lake where fall racing is now in progress .
At New Orleans , 25-mile-square Lake Pontchartrain has few squalls and year-long boating .
Marinas are less plush than the Florida type but service is good and Creole cooking better .
Ten thousand twisty miles of shoreline frame the 30-odd lakes in the vast Tennessee River system that loops in and out of seven states .
A year ago it was bruited that the primary character in Erich Maria Remarque's new novel was based on the Marquis Alfonso De Portago , the Spanish nobleman who died driving in the Mille Miglia automobile race of 1957 .
If this was in fact Mr. Remarque's intention he has achieved a notable failure .
Clerfayt of `` Heaven Has No Favorites '' resembles Portago only in that he is male and a race-driver -- quite a bad race-driver , whereas Portago was a good one .
the twelfth Marquis De Portago was intelligent , purposeful , and passionate .
One looked forward to Mr. Remarque's ninth book if only because not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile racing , as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised .
Unhappily , `` Heaven Has No Favorites '' does not alter the record except to add one more bad book to the list .
Between the first meeting of Clerfayt and Lillian and this dismal denouement , Mr. Remarque has laid down many pages of junior-philosophical discourse , some demure and rather fetching love-making , pleasant talk about some of the countryside and restaurants of Europe , and a modicum of automobile racing .
Race-drivers , on the other hand , are quite often killed on the circuit , and since it was obviously Mr. Remarque's intention to establish automobile racing as life in microcosm , one might reasonably have expected him to demonstrate precise knowledge not only of techniques but of mores and attitudes .
The necessity is not clear to me , and , in any case , to present a case-hardened race-driver as saying he has left his car , which , or whom , he calls `` Giuseppe '' , parked `` on the Place Vendome sneering at a dozen Bentleys and Rolls-Royces parked around him '' is not a liberty ; ;
A Clerfayt may moon on about the face of Death in the cockpit ; ;
a Portago could say , as he did say to me , `` If I die tomorrow , still I have had twenty-eight wonderful years ; ;
The Italian master Piero Taruffi , no less sensitive , knows twice the ecstasy though he thinks of a car's adhesion to a wet two-lane road at 165 miles an hour as a matter best expressed in algebraic formulae .
the Briton Stirling Moss , one of the greatest virtuosi of all time , believes that ultra-fast road-circuit driving is an art form related to ballet .
Errors in technical terminology suggest that the over-all translation from the German may not convey quite everything Mr. Remarque hoped to tell us .
In contrast , the East is ably led by such stalwart heroes as Khrushchev , Tito , and Mao .
It is Field Marshal Montgomery's belief that in most Western countries about 60 per cent of the people do not really care about democracy or Christianity ; ;
If , say , the Russians intended to stop Tom Jones' going to the pub , then Tom Jones would fight the Commies .
With this barrage , Montgomery of Alamein launches his attack upon the blunderings of the West .
Never given to mincing words , he places heavy blame upon the faulty , uncourageous leadership of Britain and particularly America .
At war's end leadership in Western Europe passed from Britain because the Labour Government devoted its attention to the creation of a welfare state .
With Britain looking inward , overseas problems were neglected and the baton was passed on to the United States .
But the greater reason for fumbling , stumbling American leadership is due to the shock her pride suffered when the Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor .
`` They are determined '' , Montgomery writes , `` not to be surprised again , and now insist on a state of readiness for war which is not only unnecessary , but also creates nervousness among other nations in the Western Alliance -- not to mention such great suspicions among the nations of the Eastern bloc that any progress towards peaceful coexistence or disarmament is not possible '' .
To `` Monty '' , the American people , who in two previous world wars were very reluctant to join the fight , `` now look like the nation most likely to lead us all into a third World War '' .
As faulty as has been our leadership clearly the United States must be relied upon to lead .
This leader must be a man who lives above illusions that heretofore have shaped the foreign policy of the United States , namely that Russia will agree to a reunited Germany , that the East German government does not exist , that events in Japan in June 1960 were Communist-inspired , that the true government of China is in Formosa , that Mao was the evil influence behind Khrushchev at the Summit Conference in Paris in May 1960 , and that either China or Russia wants or expects war .
After drastically overhauling NATO , Western leadership should turn to reducing the suspicions that tear apart the East and West .
The man whom he would select as our leader for this great task is De Gaulle .
But De Gaulle is buried in the cause of restoring France's lost soul .
In looking as far back as Moses , thence to Cromwell , Napoleon , Lincoln , Churchill , and Nehru , Montgomery attempts to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men .
He believes that greatness is a marriage between the man and the times as was aptly represented by Churchill , who would very possibly have gone down in history as a political failure if it had not been for Hitler's war .
However , at the same time Montgomery selects as his hero De Gaulle , who is a militarist dominated by political ambitions .
Nevertheless , Montgomery has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the Western world .
But then , Mario Lanza was no common singer , and his whole career , public and non-public , was studded with the kind of unconventional happenings that terminate with the appearance of his first `` recital '' only when he has ceased to be a living voice .
It is a kind of justice , too , that it should originate in London's Royal Albert Hall , where , traditionally , the loudest , if not the greatest , performers have entertained the thousands it will accommodate ( RCA Victor LM 2454 , $4.98 ) .
To be sure , Lanza made numerous concert tours , here and abroad , but these did not take him to New York where the carping critic might lurk .
The Department of Agriculture averaged out U.S. food consumption last year at 1,488 lbs. per person , which , allowing for the 17 million Americans that John Kennedy said go to bed hungry every night , means that certain gluttons on the upper end must somehow down 8 lbs. or more a day .
That mother hen of the weight-height tables , the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. , clucks that 48 million Americans are overweight .
Each year , reports the American Medical Association , ten million Americans spend $900 million on vitamins , tonics and other food supplements .
At juice bars in Los Angeles' 35 `` health '' stores , a new sensation is a pink , high-protein cocktail , concocted of dried eggs , powdered milk and cherry-flavored No-Cal , which sells for 59-cents per 8-oz. glass .
The man most firmly at grips with the problem is the University of Minnesota's Physiologist Ancel Keys , 57 , inventor of the wartime K ( for Keys ) ration and author of last year's bestselling Eat Well And Stay Well .
From his birch-paneled office in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene , under the university's football stadium in Minneapolis ( `` We get a rumble on every touchdown '' ) , blocky , grey-haired Dr. Keys directs an ambitious , $200,000-a-year experiment on diet , which spans three continents and seven nations and is still growing .
Pursuing it , he has logged 500,000 miles , suffered indescribable digestive indignities , and meticulously collected physiological data on the health and eating habits of 10,000 individuals , from Bantu tribesmen to Italian contadini .
He has measured the skinfolds ( the fleshy areas under the shoulder blades ) of Neapolitan firemen , studied the metabolism of Finnish woodcutters , analyzed the `` mealie-meal '' eaten by Capetown coloreds , and experimented on Minneapolis businessmen .
The typical U.S. daily menu , says Dr. Keys , contains 3,000 calories , should contain 2,300 .
With meat , milk , butter and ice cream , the calorie-heavy U.S. diet is 40% fat , and most of that is saturated fat -- the insidious kind , says Dr. Keys , that increases blood cholesterol , damages arteries , and leads to coronary disease .
In West Africa , for example , where meat is a luxury and babies must be weaned early to make room at the breast for later arrivals , a childhood menace is kwashiorkor , or `` Red Johnny '' , a growth-stunting protein deficiency ( signs : reddish hair , bloated belly ) that kills more than half its victims , leaves the rest prey for parasites and lingering tropical disease .
Today , as Harrison's Principles Of Internal Medicine , a standard internist's text , puts it , `` The most common form of malnutrition is caloric excess or obesity '' .
Puritan New England regarded obesity as a flagrant symbol of intemperance , and thus a sin .
Says Keys : `` Maybe if the idea got around again that obesity is immoral , the fat man would start to think '' .
The simple mechanical strain of overweight , says New York's Dr. Norman Jolliffe , can overburden and damage the heart `` for much the same reason that a Chevrolet engine in a Cadillac body would wear out sooner than if it were in a body for which it was built '' .
Physiologically , people overeat because what Dr. Jolliffe calls the `` appestat '' is set too high .
The result says Jolliffe : `` The child gains the feeling that food is the purpose of life '' .
Reports Dr. Keys : `` A fairly common experience for us is the wife who finds her husband staying out more and more .
Physiologist Keys flatly dismisses such appetite depressants as the amphetamines ( Benzedrine , Dexedrine ) as dangerous `` crutches for a weak will '' .
Keys has no such objections to Metrecal , Quaker Oats's Quota and other 900-calorie milk formulas that are currently winning favor from dieters .
But Keys worries that the Metrecal drinker will never make either the psychological or physiological adjustment to the idea of eating smaller portions of food .
Despite his personal distaste for obesity ( `` disgusting '' ) , Dr. Keys has only an incidental interest in how much Americans eat .
What concerns him much more is the relationship of diet to the nation's No. 1 killer : coronary artery disease , which accounts for more than half of all heart fatalities and kills 500,000 Americans a year -- twice the toll from all varieties of cancer , five times the deaths from automobile accidents .
Cholesterol , the cornerstone of Dr. Keys's theory , is a mysterious yellowish , waxy substance , chemically a crystalline alcohol .
`` A remarkable substance '' , says Dr. Keys , `` quite apart from its tendency to be deposited in the walls of arteries '' .
Explains Keys : As the fatty protein molecules travel in the bloodstream , they are deposited in the intima , or inner wall of a coronary artery .
Even eggs and other cholesterol-rich foods , eaten in normal amounts , says Dr. Keys , do not materially affect the amount of cholesterol in the blood .
During World War 2 , , doctors in The Netherlands and Scandinavia noted a curious fact : despite the stresses of Nazi occupation , the death rate from coronary artery disease was slowly dropping .
That year , Sweden's Haqvin Malmros showed that the sinking death rate neatly coincided with increasingly severe restrictions on fatty foods .
That same year the University of California's Dr. Laurance Kinsell , timing oxidation rates of blood fats , stumbled onto the discovery that many vegetable fats cause blood cholesterol levels to drop radically , while animal fats cause them to rise .
Here Keys and others , such as Dr. A. E. Ahrens of the Rockefeller Institute , took over to demonstrate the chemical difference between vegetable and animal fats -- and even between different varieties of each .
In it important elements of Christianity and of the Biblical view of reality in general , which now cause us much difficulty , could be responded to quite naturally and spontaneously .
The situation in which we find ourselves is brought out with dramatic force in Arthur Miller's play The Crucible , which deals with the Salem witch trials .
As the play opens the audience is introduced to the community of Salem in Puritan America at the end of the eighteenth century .
A teenage girl , Abigail Williams , is being sharply questioned by her minister uncle , the Reverend Samuel Parris , about a wild night affair in the woods in which she and some other girls had seemed to have had contact with these evil beings .
It is like a mysterious epidemic which , starting first with Abigail and Parris , spreads inexorably with a dreadfully growing virulence through the whole town until all have been infected by it .
In the end the good man , John Proctor , expresses what the audience has already come to feel when he says , `` A fire , a fire is burning ! !
I hear the boot of Lucifer , I see his filthy face '' ! !
Even Mr. Miller himself seems uncertain on this score .
In a long commentary which he has inserted in the published text of the first act of the play , he says at one point : `` However , that experience never raised a doubt in his mind as to the reality of the underworld or the existence of Lucifer's many-faced lieutenants .
( page 33 ) On the other hand , a little later on he says : `` Since 1692 a great but superficial change has wiped out God's beard and the Devil's horns , but the world is still gripped between two diametrically opposed absolutes .
Think , for example , of the spirit of the Marine Corps .
So it is too with many other spirits which we all know : the spirit of Nazism or Communism , school spirit , the spirit of a street corner gang or a football team , the spirit of Rotary or the Ku Klux Klan .
The spirit of the Marine Corps was present and operative before any of the present members of it came into it .
The statement is often made that when Bultmann argues in this way , he `` overestimates the intellectual stumbling-block which myth is supposed to put in the way of accepting the Christian faith '' .
This is not to say that the only explanation of the present infatuation with Norman Vincent Peale's `` cult of reassurance '' or the other types of a purely cultural Christianity is the ever-present need for a demythologized gospel .
To be sure , when this is pointed out , a common response among certain churchmen is to fulminate about `` the little flock '' and `` the great crowd '' and to take solace from Paul's castigation of the `` wisdom of the wise '' in the opening chapter of First Corinthians .
Can the church risk assuming that the `` folly '' of men is as dear to God as their `` wisdom '' , or , as is also commonly implied , that `` the foolishness of God '' and `` the foolishness of men '' are simply two ways of talking about the same thing ? ?
There is an ancient and venerable tradition in the church ( which derives , however , from the heritage of the Greeks rather than from the Bible ) that God is completely independent of his creation and so has no need of men for accomplishing his work in the world .
But , as Scripture everywhere reminds us , God does have need of his creatures , and the church , a fortiori , can ill afford to do without the talents with which the world , by God's providence , presents it .
If to be a Christian means to say yes where I otherwise say no , or where I do not have the right to say anything at all , then my only choice is to refuse to be a Christian .
Expressed differently : if the price for becoming a faithful follower of Jesus Christ is some form of self-destruction , whether of the body or of the mind -- sacrificium corporis , sacrificium intellectus -- then there is no alternative but that the price remain unpaid .
Modern man , as Dietrich Bonhoeffer has told us , has `` come of age '' ; ;
We have aligned ourselves with that `` liberal '' tradition in Protestant Christianity that counts among the great names in its history those of Schleiermacher , Ritschl , Herrmann , Harnack , and Troeltsch , and more recently , Schweitzer and the early Barth and , in part at least , Bultmann .
For we must number here not only the names of Bushnell , Clarke , and Rauschenbusch , not to mention those of `` the Chicago School '' and Macintosh , but those of the brothers Niebuhr and ( if America may claim him ! !
Finally , we may also mention the several members of the self-consciously `` neoliberal '' movement that developed at the University of Chicago and is heavily indebted philosophically to the creative work of Alfred North Whitehead .
Whereas Bultmann's `` center '' position is structurally inconsistent and is therefore indefensible on formal grounds alone , the general position of the `` right '' , as represented , say , by Karl Barth , involves the rejection or at least qualification of the demand for demythologization and so is invalidated on the material grounds we have just considered .
It follows , then , provided the possibilities have been exhausted , that the only real alternative is the general viewpoint of the `` left '' , which has been represented on the Continent by Fritz Buri and , to some extent at least , is found in much that is significant in American and English theology .
We may show , first , that there cannot possibly be an alternative other than the three typically represented by Bultmann , Barth , and Buri .
Thus , if what is at issue is whether `` All S is P '' , it is indifferent whether `` Some S is not P '' or `` No S is P '' , since in either case the judgment in question is false .
Therefore , the only conceivable alternatives are those represented , on the one hand , by the two at least apparently self-consistent but mutually exclusive positions of Buri and Barth and , on the other hand , by the third but really pseudo position ( analogous to a round square ) of Bultmann .
It will be recalled from the discussion in Section 7 that the position of the `` right '' , as represented by Barth , rests on the following thesis : The only tenable alternative to Bultmann's position is a theology that ( 1 ) rejects or at least qualifies his unconditioned demand for demythologization and existential interpretation ; ;
and ( 3 ) in so doing , frees itself to give appropriate emphasis to the event Jesus Christ by means of statements that , from Bultmann's point of view , are mythological .
One hundred years ago there existed in England the Association for the Promotion of the Unity of Christendom .
Representing as it did the efforts of only unauthorized individuals of the Roman and Anglican Churches , and urging a communion of prayer unacceptable to Rome , this association produced little fruit , and , in fact , was condemned by the Holy Office in 1864 .
Now again in 1961 , in England , there is perhaps nothing in the religious sphere so popularly discussed as Christian unity .
The Church Unity Octave , January 18-25 , was enthusiastically devoted to prayer and discussion by the various churches .
But it must be readily seen that the religious picture in England has so greatly changed during these hundred years as to engender hope , at least on the Catholic side .
For the `` tide is well on the turn '' , as the London Catholic weekly Universe has written .
I came to England last summer to do research on the unpublished letters of Cardinal Newman .
As an American Catholic of Irish ancestry , I came with certain preconceptions and expectations ; ;
being intellectually influenced by Newman and the general 19th-century literature of England , I knew only a Protestant-dominated country .
Since arriving here , however , I have formed a far different religious picture of present-day England .
but my primary aim is to transcribe what Englishmen themselves are saying and writing and implying about the Roman and Anglican Churches and about the present religious state of England .
Since the Protestant clergy for the most part wear gray or some variant from the wholly black suit , my Roman collar and black garb usually identify me in England as a Roman Catholic cleric .
In any case , I have always been treated with the utmost courtesy by Englishmen , even in Devonshire and Cornwall , where anti-Catholic feeling has supposedly existed the strongest and longest .
On my first Guy Fawkes Day here , I found Catholics as well as non-Catholics celebrating with the traditional fireworks and bonfires , and was told that most Englishmen either do not know or are not concerned with the historical significance of the day .
A Birmingham newspaper printed in a column for children an article entitled `` The True Story of Guy Fawkes '' , which began :
`` When you pile your `` guy '' on the bonfire tomorrow night , I wonder how much of the true story of Guy Fawkes you will remember ? ?
In the 355 years since the first Guy Fawkes Night , much of the story has been forgotten , so here is a reminder '' .
The article proceeded to give an inaccurate account of a Catholic plot to kill King James 1 .
In spite of the increase in numbers and prestige brought about by the conversions of Newman and other Tractarians of the 1840's and 1850's , the Catholic segment of England one hundred years ago was a very small one ( four per cent , or 800,000 ) which did not enjoy a gracious hearing from the general public .
In 1864 Newman professedly had to write his Apologia with his keenest feelings in order to be believed and to command a fair hearing from English readers .
Now , in 1961 , the Catholic population of England is still quite small ( ten per cent , or 5 million ) ; ;
A Protestant woman marveled to me over the large crowds going in and out of the Birmingham Oratory ( Catholic ) Church on Sunday mornings .
A Catholic priest recently recounted how in the chapel of a large city university , following Anglican evensong , at which there was a congregation of twelve , he celebrated Mass before more than a hundred .
According to a newspaper report of the 1961 statistics of the Church of England , the `` total of confirmed members is 9,748,000 , but only 2,887,671 are registered on the parochial church rolls '' , and `` over 27 million people in England are baptized into the Church of England , but roughly only a tenth of them continue '' .
An amazing article in the Manchester Guardian of last November , entitled `` Fate Of Redundant Churches '' , states than an Archbishops' Commission `` reported last month that in the Church of England alone there are 790 churches which are redundant now , or will be in 20 years' time .
Most of these former churches are now used as warehouses , but `` neither Anglicans nor Nonconformists object to selling churches to Roman Catholics '' , and have done so .
While it must be said that these same Protestants have built some new churches during this period , and that religious population shifts have emptied churches , a principal reason for this phenomenon of redundancy is that fewer Protestants are going to church .
Still , it is clear from such reports , and apparently clear from the remarks of many people , that Protestants are decreasing and Catholics increasing .
An Anglican clergyman in Oxford sadly but frankly acknowledged to me that this is true .
A century ago , Newman saw that liberalism ( what we now might call secularism ) would gradually but definitely make its mark on English Protestantism , and that even high Anglicanism would someday no longer be a `` serviceable breakwater against doctrinal errors more fundamental than its own '' .
That day is perhaps today , 1961 , and it seems no longer very meaningful to call England a `` Protestant country '' .
One of the ironies of the present crusade for Christian unity is that there are not , relatively speaking , many real Christians to unite .
Many English Catholics are proud of their Catholicism and know that they are in a new ascendancy .
The London Universe devoted its centenary issue last December 8 to mapping out various aspects of Catholic progress during the last one hundred years .
With traditional nationalistic spirit , some Englishmen claim that English Catholicism is Catholicism at its best .
I have found myself saying with other foreigners here that English Catholics are good Catholics .
It has been my experience to find as many men as women in church , and to hear almost everyone in church congregations reciting the Latin prayers and responses at Mass .
They hope , of course , to reclaim the non-Catholic population to the Catholic faith , and at every Sunday Benediction they recite by heart the `` Prayer for England '' :
`` O Blessed Virgin Mary , Mother of God and our most gentle queen and mother , look down in mercy upon England , thy `` dowry '' , and upon us all who greatly hope and trust in thee .
Intercede for our separated brethren , that with us in the one true fold they may be united to the chief Shepherd , the vicar of thy Son .
'' A hymn often to be heard in Catholic churches is `` Faith Of Our Fathers '' , which glories in England's ancient faith that endured persecution , and which proclaims : `` Faith of our Fathers : Mary's prayers Shall win our country back to thee '' .
The English saints are widely venerated , quite naturally , and now there is great hope that the Forty Martyrs and Cardinal Newman will soon be canonized .
Because they have kept the faith of their medieval fathers , English Catholics have always strongly resented the charge of being `` un-English '' .
For example , a writer in a recent number of The Queen hyperbolically states that `` of the myriad imprecations the only one which the English Catholics really resent is the suggestion that they are ' un-English ' '' .
In this connection , it has been observed that the increasing number of Irish Catholics , priests and laity , in England , while certainly seen as good for Catholicism , is nevertheless a source of embarrassment for some of the more nationalistic English Catholics , especially when these Irishmen offer to remind their Christian brethren of this good .
One of the more noteworthy changes that have taken place since the mid-19th century is the situation of Catholics at Oxford and Cambridge Universities .
At Oxford one hundred years ago there were very few Catholics , partly because religious tests were removed only in 1854 .
Further evidence that Roman Catholicism enjoys a more favorable position today than in 1861 is the respectful attention given to it in the mass media of England .
The general tone of articles appearing in such important newspapers as the Manchester Guardian and the Sunday Observer implies a kindly recognition that the Catholic Church is now at least of equal stature in England with the Protestant churches .
On successive Sundays during October , 1960 , Paul Ferris ( a non-Catholic ) wrote articles in the Observer depicting clergymen of the Church of England , the Church of Rome and the Nonconformist Church .
There was so much interest shown in this present-day venture that it was continued on B.B.C. , where comments were equally made by an Anglican parson , a Free Church minister and a Catholic priest .
Catholic priests have frequently appeared on television programs , sometimes discussing the Christian faith on an equal footing with Protestant clergymen .
A notable example of this was the discussion of Christian unity by the Catholic Archbishop of Liverpool , Dr. Heenan , and the Anglican Archbishop of York , Dr. Ramsey , recently appointed Archbishop of Canterbury .
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass with commentary has been televised several times in recent months .
And it was interesting to observe that B.B.C.'s television film on Christmas Eve was The Bells Of St. Mary's .
Of course , the crowning event that has dramatically upset the traditional pattern of English religious history was the friendly visit paid by Dr. Fisher , then Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury , to the Vatican last December .
It was the first time an English Primate has done this since the 14th century .
Almost daily something is reported which feeds this Catholic hope in England : statistics of the increasing numbers of converts and Irish Catholic immigrants ; ;
news of a Protestant minister in Leamington who has offered to allow a Catholic priest to preach from his pulpit ; ;
the startling statement in a respectable periodical that `` Catholics , if the present system is still in operation , will constitute almost one-third of the House of Lords in the next generation '' ; ;
a report that 200 Protestant clergymen and laity attended a votive Mass offered for Christian unity at a Catholic church in Slough during the Church Unity Octave .
Christianity declares that in the life and death of Jesus Christ the unique and the universal concur .
To be the Savior and the Lord , Jesus Christ has to be a historical individual with a biography all his own ; ;
Each man can identify himself with the history and the death of Jesus Christ because Jesus Christ has identified himself with human history and human death , coming as the head of a new humanity .
As Origen interprets the end of history on the basis of its beginning , so Irenaeus portrays the story of Adam on the basis of the story of Christ .
From God's Will and Wisdom , and from virgin earth .
For ' God had not rained ' , says the Scripture , before man was made , and there was no man to till the earth .
Irenaeus does not regard Adam and Eve merely as private individuals , but as universal human beings , who were and are all of humanity .
The biblical symbol for this affirmation is expressed in the words : `` So God created man in his own image ; ;
There are some passages in the writings of Irenaeus where the image of God and the similitude are sharply distinguished , so most notably in the statement : `` If the ( Holy ) Spirit is absent from the soul , such a man is indeed of an animal nature ; ;
and , being left carnal , he will be an imperfect being , possessing the image ( of God ) in his formation , but not receiving the similitude ( of God ) through the Spirit '' .
He does not mean to say that Adam lost the similitude of God and his immortality through the fall ; ;
`` So that the man should not have thoughts of grandeur , and become lifted up , as if he had no lord , because of the dominion that had been given to him , and the freedom , fall into sin against God his Creator , overstepping his bounds , and take up an attitude of self-conceited arrogance towards God , a law was given him by God , that he might know that he had for lord the lord of all .
And He laid down for him certain conditions : so that , if he kept the command of God , then he would always remain as he was , that is , immortal ; ;
There is no justification for systematizing the random statements of Irenaeus about the image of God beyond this , nor for reading into his imprecise usage the later theological distinction between the image of God ( humanity ) and the similitude of God ( immortality ) .
Because he interprets the primitive state of man as one of mere potentiality or capacity and believes that Adam and Eve were created as children , Irenaeus often seems inclined to extenuate their disobedience as being `` due , no doubt , to carelessness , but still wicked '' .
His interpretation of the beginning on the basis of the end prompts him to draw these parallels between the Virgin Eve and the Virgin Mary .
for as it was Christ , the Word of God , who came to rescue man , so it was disobedience to the word of God in the beginning that brought death into the world , and all our woe .
This leads Irenaeus to the somewhat startling notion that Adam and Eve died on the same day that they disobeyed , namely , on a Friday , as a parallel to the death of Christ on Good Friday ; ;
`` Wherefore also He ( God ) drove him ( man ) out of Paradise , and removed him far from the tree of life , not because He envied him the tree of life , as some venture to assert , but because He pitied him , ( and did not desire ) that he should continue a sinner for ever , nor that the sin which surrounded him should be immortal , and evil interminable and irremediable .
But He set a bound to his ( state of ) sin , by interposing death , and thus causing sin to cease , putting an end to it by the dissolution of the flesh , which should take place in the earth , so that man , ceasing at length to live in sin , and dying to it , might live to God '' .
This idea , which occurs in both Tatian and Cyprian , fits especially well into the scheme of Irenaeus' theology ; ;
It becomes most evident in his description of Christ as the second Adam , who does indeed come to destroy sin , but whose work culminates in the achievement of immortality .
This emphasis upon death rather than sin as man's fundamental problem Irenaeus shares with many early theologians , especially the Greek-speaking ones .
Such efforts almost always find themselves compelled to ask whether Adam was created capable of growing old and then older and then still older , in short , whether Adam's life was intended to be part of the process of time .
One night , so some of these theories run , Adam would have fallen asleep , much as he fell asleep for the creation of Eve ; ;
Because Christianity teaches not only salvation in history , but salvation by the history of Christ , such an interpretation of death would require a drastic revision of the Christian understanding of the work of Christ .
The Unitarian clergy were an exclusive club of cultivated gentlemen -- as the term was then understood in the Back Bay -- and Parker was definitely not a gentleman , either in theology or in manners .
Ezra Stiles Gannett , an honorable representative of the sanhedrin , addressed himself frankly to the issue in 1845 , insisting that Parker should not be persecuted or calumniated and that in this republic no power to restrain him by force could exist .
Even so , Gannett judiciously argued , the Association could legitimately decide that Parker `` should not be encouraged nor assisted in diffusing his opinions by those who differ from him in regard to their correctness '' .
One can even argue -- though this is a delicate matter -- that every justification existed for their returning the Public Lecture to the First Church , and so to suppress it , rather than let Parker use it as a sounding board for his propaganda when his turn should come to occupy it .
Finally , it did seem clear as day to these clergymen , as Gannett's son explained in the biography of his father , they had always contended for the propriety of their claim to the title of Christians .
Their demand against the Calvinist Orthodoxy for intellectual liberty had never meant that they would follow `` free inquiry '' to the extreme of proclaiming Christianity a `` natural '' religion .
Grant all this -- still , when modern Unitarianism and the Harvard Divinity School recall with humorous affection the insults Parker lavished upon them , or else argue that after all Parker received the treatment he invited , they betray an uneasy conscience .
Whenever New England liberalism is reminded of the dramatic confrontation of Parker and the fraternity on January 23 , 1843 -- while it may defend the privilege of Chandler Robbins to demand that Parker leave the Association , while it may plead that Dr. N. L. Frothingham had every warrant for stating , `` The difference between Trinitarians and Unitarians is a difference in Christianity ; ;
the difference between Mr. Parker and the Association is a difference between no Christianity and Christianity '' -- despite these supposed conclusive assurances , the modern liberal heaves repeatedly a sigh of relief , of positive thanksgiving , that the Association never quite brought itself officially to expel Parker .
Had it done so , the blot on its escutcheon would have remained indelible , nor could the Harvard Divinity School assemble today to honor Parker's insurgence other than by getting down on its collective knees and crying `` peccavi '' .
Happily for posterity , then , the Boston Association did not actually command Parker to leave the room , though it came too close for comfort to what would have been an unforgivable brutality .
Fortunately , the honor of the denomination can attest that Cyrus Bartol defended Parker's sincerity , as did also Gannett and Chandler Robbins ; ;
In the hall , after adjournment , Dr. Frothingham took him warmly by the hand and requested Parker to visit him -- whereupon our burly Theodore again burst into tears .
It was indeed a near thing , but somehow the inherent decency of New England ( which we inherit ) did triumph .
Yet , even after all these stratagems , the conscience of Christian liberality is still not laid to rest , any more than is the conscience of Harvard University for having done the abject penance for its rejection of Ralph Waldo Emerson's The Divinity School Address of naming its hall of philosophy after him .
The fact is incontestable : that liberal world of Unitarian Boston was narrow-minded , intellectually sterile , smug , afraid of the logical consequences of its own mild ventures into iconoclasm , and quite prepared to resort to hysterical repressions when its brittle foundations were threatened .
Parker , along with Garrison and Charles Sumner , showed a magnificent moral bravery when facing mobs mobilized in defense of the Mexican War and slavery .
The gentle Channing , revered by all Bostonians , orthodox or Unitarian , wrote to a friend in Louisville that among its many virtues Boston did not abound in a tolerant spirit , that the yoke of opinion crushed individuality of judgment and action : `` No city in the world is governed so little by a police , and so much by mutual inspections and what is called public sentiment .
Even more poignantly , and with the insight of a genius , Channing added -- remember , this is Channing , not Parker ! !
But Theodore Parker , commencing his mission to the world-at-large , disguised as the minister of a `` twenty-eighth Congregational Church '' which bore no resemblance to the Congregational polities descended from the founders ( among which were still the Unitarian churches ) , made explicit from the beginning that the conflict between him and the Hunkerish society was not something which could be evaporated into a genteel difference about clerical decorum .
Because he spoke openly with what Channing had prophesied someone might -- with daring hyperbole -- Parker vindicated Channing's further prophecy that he who committed this infraction of taste would promptly discover how little mercy liberals were disposed to allow to libertarians who appeared to them libertines .
By reminding ourselves of these factors in the situation , we should , I am sure , come to a fresh realization , however painful it be , that the battle between Parker and his neighbors was fought in earnest .
What otherwise could `` the lawyer , doctor , minister , the men of science and letters '' do when told that they had `` become the cherubim and seraphim and the three archangels who stood before the golden throne of the merchant , and continually cried , ' Holy , holy , holy is the Almighty Dollar ' `` ? ?
Nor , when we recollect how sensitive were the emotions of the old Puritan stock in regard to the recent tides of immigration , should we be astonished that their thin lips were compressed into a white line of rage as Parker snarled at them thus : `` Talk about the Catholics voting as the bishop tells ! !
There are a great many bishops who have never had a cross on their bosom , nor a mitre on their head , who appeal not to the authority of the Pope at Rome , but to the Almighty Dollar , a pope much nearer home .
And he took repeated care to let his colleagues know that he intended them : `` Even the Unitarian churches have caught the malaria , and are worse than those who deceived them '' -- which implied that they were very bad indeed .
We have to tell ourselves that when Parker spoke in this vein , he believed what he said , because he could continue , `` But the truth , which cost me bitter tears to say , I must speak , though it cost other tears hotter than fire '' .
Because he copiously shed his own tears , and yielded himself up as a living sacrifice to the impersonalized conscience of New England , he was not disturbed by the havoc he worked in other people's consciences .
Our endeavor to capture even a faint sense of how strenuous was the fight is muffled by our indifference to the very issue which in the Boston of 1848 seemed to be the central hope of its Christian survival , that of the literal , factual historicity of the miracles as reported in the Four Gospels .
It is idle to ask why we are no longer disturbed if somebody , professing the deepest piety , decides anew that it is of no importance whether or not Christ transformed the water into wine at eleven A.M. on the third of August , A.D. 32 .
We have not the leisure , or the patience , or the skill , to comprehend what was working in the mind and heart of a then recent graduate from the Harvard Divinity School who would muster the audacity to contradict his most formidable instructor , the majesterial Andrews Norton , by saying that , while he believed Jesus `` like other religious teachers '' , worked miracles , `` I see not how a miracle proves a doctrine '' .
I have , within the past fifty years , come out of all uncertainty into a faith which is a dominating conviction of the Truth and about which I have not a shadow of doubt .
At one time I became disturbed in the faith in which I had grown up by the apparent inroads being made upon both Old and New Testaments by a `` Higher Criticism '' of the Bible , to refute which I felt the need of a better knowledge of Hebrew and of archaeology , for it seemed to me that to pull out some of the props of our faith was to weaken the entire structure .
Doubts thus inculcated left me floundering for a while and , like some higher critical friends , trying to continue to use the Bible as the Word of God while at the same time holding it to have been subjected to a vast number of redactions and interpolations : attempting to bridge the chasm between an older , reverent , Bible-loving generation and a critical , doubting , Bible-emancipated race .
Although still aware of a great light and glow of warmth in the Book , I stood outside shivering in the cold .
In one thing the higher critics , like the modernists , however , overreached themselves , in claiming that the Gospel of John was not written in John's time but well after the first century , perhaps as late as 150 A.D. .
Now , if any part of the Bible is assuredly the very Word of God speaking through His servant , it is John's Gospel .
To ask me to believe that so inexpressibly marvelous a book was written long after all the events by some admiring follower , and was not inspired directly by the Spirit of God , is asking me to accept a miracle far greater than any of those recorded in the Bible .
Here I took my leave of my learned friends to step out on another path , to which we might give the modern name of Pragmatism , or the thing that works .
So , I put my Bible to the practical test of noting what it says about itself , and then tested it to see how it worked .
As a short , possibly not the best method , I looked up `` Word '' in the Concordance and noted that the Bible claims from Genesis 1 to Revelation 22 to be God's personal message to man .
The next traditional step then was to accept it as the authoritative textbook of the Christian faith just as one would accept a treatise on any earthly `` science '' , and I submitted to its conditions according to Christ's invitation and promise that , `` If any man will do his will , he shall know of the doctrine , whether it be of God , or whether I speak of myself '' ( John 7 : 17 ) .
The outcome of such an experiment has been in due time the acceptance of the Bible as the Word of God inspired in a sense utterly different from any merely human book , and with it the acceptance of our Lord Jesus Christ as the only begotten Son of God , Son of Man by the Virgin Mary , the Saviour of the world .
I believe , therefore , that we are without exception sinners , by nature alienated from God , and that Jesus Christ , the Son of God , came to earth , the representative Head of a new race , to die upon the cross and pay the penalty of the sin of the world , and that he who thus receives Christ as his personal Saviour is `` born again '' spiritually , with new privileges , appetites , and affections , destined to live and grow in His likeness forever .
I now ever look for Christ according to His promises and those of the Old Testament as well , to appear again in glory to put away all sin and to reign in righteousness over the whole earth .
Again , as faith reveals God my Father and Christ my Saviour , I follow without question where He leads me daily by His Spirit of love , wisdom , power and prayer .
I place His precepts and His leadings above every seeming probability , dismissing cherished convictions and holding the wisdom of man as folly when opposed to Him .
I discern no limits to a faith vested in God and Christ , who is the sum of all wisdom and knowledge , and daring to trust Him even though called to stand alone before the world .
Our Lord's invitation with its implied promise to all is , `` Come and see '' .
As I ministered to his needs , I noticed that his face was radiant in spite of his suffering and I learned that he was trusting not only in the skill of his doctor and nurse but also the Lord .
In his heart he had that peace of which the Lord spoke when He said , `` Peace I leave with you , my peace I give unto you : not as the world giveth , give I unto you .
What a joy to realize that we , too , can claim this promise tendered by the Lord during His earthly ministry to a group of men who were very dear to Him .
He was about to leave them , to depart from this world , and return to His Father in Heaven .
Before He left them He promised that His peace would be their portion to abide in their hearts and minds .
I praise God for the privilege of being a nurse who has that peace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ .
How often have I looked to Jesus when entering the sick room , asking for His presence and help in my professional duties as I give my talents not only as the world giveth but as one who loves the Saviour and His creatures .
Looking unto God , the Prophet Isaiah wrote these blessed words almost three thousand years ago : `` Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace , whose mind is stayed on thee : because he trusteth in thee '' .
As only a member of the family can share in the innermost joys of the family , likewise one must belong to the family of God in order to receive the benefits that are promised to those who are His own .
`` God so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten Son , that whosoever believeth in him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' , and `` as many as received him , to them gave He power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on His name '' .
It is to those who believe on His name and belong to Him that He gives His peace ; ;
Why not open your heart to the Lord Jesus Christ now , accept Him as your Saviour and let Him fill you with peace that only He can give .
Over $200,000,000 is paid yearly to the 80,000 full-time fortune-tellers in the United States by fearful mankind who want to `` know '' what the future holds ! !
Unfortunately , in our rush to beat the Russians , we have forgotten these truth-packed words of Jesus Christ : `` What shall it profit a man , if he shall gain the whole world ( that includes outer space ) , and lose his own soul ? ?
Is putting a rocket in orbit half so significant as the good news that God put His Son , Jesus Christ , on earth to live and die to save our hell-bound souls ? ?
`` For God so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten Son , that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' ( John 3 : :
We trust you are not one of the 70,000,000 Americans who do not attend church , but who feel that various forms of recreation are more important than worshipping the God who made our country great .
Because your soul was made to be filled with God Himself , not religious functions `` about '' Him .
That is why the Bible commands you to `` Taste and see that the Lord is good : blessed ( happy ) is the man that trusteth in Him '' ( Psalm 34 : 8 ) .
Accept the sinless Son of God , Jesus Christ , as your own personal Saviour .
`` As many as received Him ( Jesus ) , to them gave He power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on his name '' .
A certain teacher scheduled a `` Fear Party '' for her fourth grade pupils .
Dr. George W. Crane , a medical columnist , thinks it would .
The President of the United States has said : `` We will never negotiate out of fear , and we will never fear to negotiate '' .
Turning to the Word of God , we find the only sure way to do that .
In Psalm 27 : 1 you read those beautiful words which you must have in your heart if you are to master the fears that surround you , or to drive them out if they have you in their grip : `` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
Another man tried to swim across the river from the East to the West , but was shot and killed .
The normal rate of suicides in East Berlin was one a day , but since the border was closed on August 13 it has jumped to 25 a day ! !
He must learn to say with true faith what the psalmist said in a similar world : `` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
The same God who called this world into being when He said : `` Let there be light '' ! !
-- those were His very first creative words -- He began the world with light -- this God still gives light to a world which man has plunged into darkness .
For those who put their trust in Him He still says every day again : `` Let there be light '' ! !
In fact , He came into this world Himself , in the person of His Son , Jesus Christ , who stood here amid the darkness of human sin and said : `` I am the light of the world : he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness , but shall have the light of life '' .
The psalmist could say that God was his light even though he could only anticipate the coming of Christ .
This is the faith that moved the psalmist to add his second conception of God : `` The Lord is my salvation '' .
He knew that his God would save him from his enemies because He had saved him from his sins .
If God could do that , He could do anything .
And God had conquered that one by His grace ! !
The apostle Paul said the same thing in the language and faith of the New Testament : `` He that spared not His own Son , but delivered Him up for us all , how shall He not with Him freely give us all things ? ?
This gets down to the heart of our problem , for it reconciles us with God , whom we fear most of all because we have sinned against Him .
When that fear has been removed by faith in Jesus Christ , when we know that He is our Savior , that He has paid our debt with His blood , that He has met the demands of God's justice and thus has turned His wrath away -- when we know that , we have peace with God in our hearts ; ;
And so the psalmist gives us one more picture of God : `` The Lord is the strength of my life '' .
Therefore will not we fear , though the earth be removed , and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Come , behold the works of the Lord , what desolations He hath made in the earth .
But , again , we have no real evidence on this from that quarter until the close of the ninth century A.D. , when an Arabic scholar , Tabit Ibn Korra ( 836-901 ) is said to have discussed the magic square of three .
Thus , while it remains possible that the Babylonians and/or the Pythagoreans may perhaps have had the magic square of three before the Chinese did , more definite evidence will have to turn up from the Middle East or the Classical World before China can lose her claim to the earliest known magic square by more than a thousand years .
The `` Lo Shu '' square as an expression of centrality
The concept of the Middle Kingdom at peace , strong and united under a forceful ruler , which had been only a longed-for ideal in the time of the Warring States , was finally realized by the establishment of a Chinese Empire under the Ch'in dynasty ( 221-207 B.C. ) .
Among the many severe measures taken by the First Emperor , Shih Huang-ti , in his efforts to insure the continuation of this hard-won national unity , was the burning of the books in 213 B.C. , with the expressed intention of removing possible sources for divergent thinking ; ;
yet some must have survived , because the old interest in number symbolism , divination , and magic persisted on into the Han dynasty , which succeeded in reuniting China and keeping it together for a longer period ( from 202 B.C. to A.D. 220 ) .
In fact , during the first century B.C. , an extensive literature sprang up devoted to these subjects , finding its typical expression in the so-called `` wei books '' , a number of which were specifically devoted to the Lo Shu and related numerical diagrams , especially in connection with divination .
However , the wei books were also destroyed in a series of Orthodox Confucian purges which culminated in a final proscription in 605 .
After all this destruction of old literature , it should be obvious why we have so little information about the early history and development of the Lo Shu , which was already semisecret anyhow .
But , up to now , no one has attempted to analyze its inherent mathematical properties , or the numerical significance of its numbers -- singly or in combination -- and then tried to consider these in the light of Old Chinese cosmological concepts .
Such an analysis speedily reveals why the middle number of the Lo Shu , 5 , was so vitally significant for the Chinese ever since the earliest hints that they had a knowledge of this diagram .
Furthermore , the middle number of the Lo Shu is not only the physical mean between every opposing pair of the other numbers , by reason of its central position ; ;
In fact , the neat balance of these pairs , and their subtle equilibrium , would have had special meaning in the minds of the Old Chinese .
For they considered the odd numbers as male and the even ones as female , equating the two groups with the Yang and Yin principles in Nature ; ;
Thus all differences were leveled , and all contrasts erased , in a realm of no distinction , and the harmonious balance of the Lo Shu square could effectively symbolize the world in balanced harmony around a powerful central axis .
The tremendous emphasis on the 5 in the Lo Shu square -- for purely mathematical reasons -- and the fact that this number so neatly symbolized the heart and center of the universe , could well explain why the Old Chinese seem to have so revered the number 5 , and why they put so much stress on the concept of Centrality .
The existing reverence for Centrality must have been still further stimulated toward the close of the second century B.C. , when the Han Emperor Wu Ti ordered the dynastic color changed to yellow -- which symbolized the Center among the traditional Five Directions -- and took 5 as the dynastic number , believing that he would thus place himself , his imperial family , and the nation under the most auspicious influences .
His immediate motive for doing this may not have been directly inspired by the Lo Shu , but this measure must inevitably have increased the existing beliefs in the latter's efficacy .
All this emphasis on Centrality and on the number 5 as a symbolic expression of the Center , which seems to have begun as far back as 400 B.C. , also may conceivably have led to the development of the Five-Elements School and the subsequent efforts to fit everything into numerical categories of five .
We find , for example , such groupings as the Five Ancient Rulers , the Five Sacred Mountains , the Five Directions ( with Center ) , the Five Metals , Five Colors , Five Tastes , Five Odors , Five Musical Notes , Five Bodily Functions , Five Viscera , and many others .
This trend has often been ascribed to the cult of the Five Elements itself , as though they had served as the base for all the rest ; ;
but why did the Old Chinese postulate five elements , when the Ancient Near East -- which may have initiated the idea that natural elements exerted influence in human life and activities -- recognized only four ? ?
And why did the Chinese suddenly begin to talk about the Five Directions , when the animals they used as symbols of the directions designated only the usual four ? ?
Obviously , something suddenly caused them to start thinking in terms of fives , and that may have been the workings of the Lo Shu .
Whereas the primary meanings of the Lo Shu diagram seemed to have been based on its inner mathematical properties -- and we shall see that even its secondary meanings rested on some mathematical bases -- the urgent desire to place everything into categories of fives led to other groupings based on other numbers , until an exaggerated emphasis on mere numerology pervaded Chinese thought .
Scholars made numbered sets of as many things as possible in Nature , or assigned arbitrary numbers to individual things , in a fashion that seems to the modern scientific mind as downright nonsensical , and philosophical ideas based upon all this tended to stifle speculative thought in China for many centuries .
Yin and Yang in the `` Lo Shu '' square
Although the primary mathematical properties of the middle number at the center of the Lo Shu , and the interrelation of all the other numbers to it , might seem enough to account for the deep fascination which the Lo Shu held for the Old Chinese philosophers , this was actually only a beginning of wonders .
For the Lo Shu square was a remarkably complete compendium of most of the chief religious and philosophical ideas of its time .
As such , one cannot fully understand the thought of the pre-Han and Han periods without knowing the meanings inherent in the Lo Shu ; ;
but , conversely , one cannot begin to understand the Lo Shu without knowing something about the world view of the Old Chinese , which they felt they saw expressed in it .
The Chinese world view during the Han dynasty , when the Lo Shu seems to have been at the height of its popularity , was based in large part on the teachings of the Yin-Yang and Five-Elements School , which was traditionally founded by Tsou Yen .
According to this doctrine , the universe was ruled by Heaven , T'ien -- as a natural force , or in the personification of a Supreme Sky-god -- governing all things by means of a process called the Tao , which can be roughly interpreted as `` the Order of the Universe '' or `` the Universal Way '' .
Heaven , acting through the Tao , expressed itself by means of the workings of two basic principles , the Yin and the Yang .
The Yang , or male principle , was the source of light , heat , and dynamic vitality , associated with the Sun ; ;
We have already seen that odd numbers were considered as being Yang , while the even numbers were Yin , so that the eight outer numbers of the Lo Shu represented these two principles in balanced equilibrium around the axial center .
During the Han dynasty , another Yin-Yang conception was applied to the Lo Shu , considering the latter as a plan of Ancient China .
Instead of linking the nine numbers of this diagram with the traditional Nine Provinces , as was usually done , this equated the odd , Yang numbers with mountains ( firm and resistant , hence Yang ) and the even numbers with rivers ( sinuous and yielding , hence Yin ) ; ;
taking the former from the Five Sacred Mountains of the Han period and the latter from the principal river systems of Old China .
Thus the middle number , 5 , represented Sung-Shan in Honan , Central China ; ;
the 3 , T'ai-Shan in Shantung , East China ; ;
the 7 , Hwa-Shan in Shensi , West China ; ;
the 1 , Heng-Shan in Hopei , North China ( or the mountain with the same name in neighboring Shansi ) ; ;
and the 9 , Huo-Shan in Anhwei , which was then the South Sacred Mountain .
For the rivers , the 4 represented the Huai , to the ( then ) Southeast ; ;
the 2 , the San Kiang ( three rivers ) in the ( then ) Southwest ; ;
and the 6 , the ( upper ) Yellow River in the Northwest .
Note that by Western standards this plan was `` upside down '' , as it put North at the bottom and South at the top , with the other directions correspondingly altered ; ;
The same arrangement was used when the Lo Shu was equated with the Nine Provinces ; ;
When they fall by the wayside and fail to achieve Christian stature , it is an indictment of the Church .
A program of Lay Visitation Evangelism can end in dismal defeat with half the new members drifting away unless practical plans and strenuous efforts are made to keep them in the active fellowship .
The work of Lay Visitation Evangelism is not completed when all of the persons on the Responsibility List have been interviewed .
In the average situation about one-third of those visited make commitments to Christ and the Church .
The pastor and the Membership Preparation and Assimilation Committee must follow through immediately with a carefully planned program .
The pastor writes a personal letter to each individual , expressing his joy over the decision , assuring him of a pastoral call at the earliest convenient time , and outlining the plan for membership preparation classes and Membership Sunday .
A piece of devotional material , such as The Upper Room , may be left in each home .
Those who join the Church need to be instructed in the faith and the meaning of Christian discipleship before they take the sacred vows .
-- The Christian Faith ; ;
-- Duties of Church Membership ; ;
-- The Local Church and Its Program
Use dramatization -- for example , in discussing the Lord's Supper or church symbolism .
Have a `` Question Box '' .
Ask each member to write a statement on such topics as : `` What Christ Means To Me '' , `` What The Church Means To Me '' , `` Why Join The Church '' , `` The Duties Of Church Members '' , etc. .
Ask each new member to bring his Pledge of Loyalty to the Reception Service .
There is A growing conviction among pastors and Church leaders that all those who come into the fellowship of the Church need preparatory training , including those coming by transfer of membership .
George E. Sweazey writes : `` There is danger in trying to make admission to the Church so easy and painless that people will scarcely know that anything has happened '' .
Reception into the Church Fellowship
They should sense the tremendous significance of joining the spiritual succession reaching back to Christ our Lord and forward to an eternal fellowship with the saints of the ages .
Invite sponsors or Fellowship Friends to stand back of the new members in the reception service .
The members of the `` family '' are drawn together by a common love for Christ and a sincere devotion to His Kingdom .
A study of major denominational membership statistics over a twenty-year period revealed the appalling fact that nearly 40 per cent of those who joined the Church were lost to the Church within seven years .
However , it is not enough to bring persons to Christian commitment and train them in the meaning of Christian discipleship .
When they unite with the Church they must find in this fellowship the satisfaction of their basic spiritual needs or they will never mature into effective Christians .
-- Opportunities for study of the Christian faith and the Bible
The statement also points to a classic paradox : The more men turn toward God , who is not only in himself the paradigm of all unity but also the only ground on which human unity can ultimately be established , the more men splinter into groups and set themselves apart from one another .
Massacres attending the partition of India and the establishment of the State of Israel are simply recent grim evidences of the hostility such divisions can engender .
The words of Cardinal Newman come forcibly to mind : `` Oh how we hate one another for the love of God '' ! !
The specific instance I have in mind is the Afro-Asian version which has gained prominence only in this second half of the twentieth century .
No less than twenty-two nations have already achieved independence since World War 2 , , and the number is growing by the year .
Africans and Asians tend to consider not only missions but the local churches they have produced as centers and agents of Western culture and ideology if not of direct political propaganda .
The people hardest hit by this suspicion are , of course , Christians on the mainland of China .
For example , in Burma and Ceylon many Buddhists argue that Buddhism ought to be the official state religion .
In 1960 Ceylon nationalized its sectarian -- preponderantly Christian -- schools , to the rejoicing of most of its 7,000,000 Buddhists and the lament of its 800,000 Roman Catholics .
Again , India has imposed formidable barriers against the entrance of additional missionaries , and fanatical Hindu parties are expected to seek further action against Christians once the influence making for tolerance due to Nehru and his followers is gone .
The progressive closing of Afro-Asian ears to the Christian message is epitomized in a conversation I had three years ago while flying from Jerusalem to Cairo .
I was seated next to the director of the Seventh Day Adventists' world radio program .
After returning to the United States and raising the money , he discovered on getting back to Japan that the hours were no longer available .
Ironically , these are the groups which have doubled or tripled their missionary efforts since World War 2 , , while the more established denominations are barely maintaining pre-war staffs .
Although I have emphasized the barriers which an aroused nationalism has raised against relations between Christians and non-Christians in Asia , the fact is that this development has also widened the gulf between certain Afro-Asian religions themselves .
The partition of India has hardly improved relations between Hindus and Muslims ; ;
neither has the establishment of the State of Israel fostered harmony between Muslims and Jews .
The American Constitution was historic at this point in providing that `` Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof '' .
One of our foremost jurists , David Dudley Field , has gone so far as to call this provision `` the greatest achievement ever made in the course of human history '' .
Pakistan was created in 1947 expressly as a Muslim state , but when the army took over eleven years later it did so on a wave of mass impatience which was directed in part against the inability of political and religious leaders to think their way through to the meaning of Islam for the modern political situation .
`` What is the point '' , Charles Adams reports the Pakistanis as asking , `` in demanding an Islamic state and society if no one , not even the doctors of the sacred law themselves , can say clearly and succinctly what the nature of such a state and society is '' ? ?
The current regime of President Mohammad Ayub Khan is determinedly secular .
And while the nation was formerly named `` The Islamic Republic of Pakistan '' , it is now simply `` The Republic of Pakistan '' .
The new regime in Turkey is intentionally less Muslim than its predecessor .
During the years when Israel was passing from crisis to crisis -- the Sinai campaign , the infusion of multitudes of penniless immigrants -- it was felt that the purpose of national unity could be best served if the secular majority were to yield to the religious parties .
And in this country Gustave Weigel's delineation of the line between the sacral and secular orders during the last presidential campaign served to provide a most impressive Roman Catholic defense of the practical autonomy of both church and state .
The failure at that time of the Puerto Rican bishops to control the votes of their people added a ring of good sense to Father Weigel's theological argument .
My father went as a missionary to China in a generation that responded to Student Volunteer Movement speakers who held watches in their hands and announced to the students in their audiences how many Chinese souls were going to hell each second because these students were not over there saving them .
I do not mean to imply that Christians have adopted the liberal assumption , so prevalent in Hinduism , that all religions are merely different paths to the same summit .
Leslie Newbiggin reflects the dominant position within the World Council of Churches when he says , `` We must claim absoluteness and finality for Christ and His finished work , but that very claim forbids us to claim absoluteness and finality for our understanding of it '' .
The Roman Catholic Church has excommunicated one of its priests , Father Feeney , for insisting that there is no salvation outside the visible church .
In mentioning this under `` salvation reconsidered '' I do not mean to imply that Roman Catholic doctrine has changed in this area but rather that it has become clearer to the world community what that doctrine is .
Mr. Philip Toynbee writes , for example , that `` in terms of probability it is surely as likely as not that mutual fear will lead to accidental war in the near future if the present situation continues .
Several of the replies to Mr. Toynbee , without conscious resort to the traditional terminology with regard to the permission of evil , succeed in restoring the actual context in which present moral and political decisions must be made , by distinguishing between choosing a great evil and choosing in danger of this evil .
But I can only make this choice because I believe that the risk need not increase , but may be deliberately reduced '' ( by precautions against accidents or by limiting war ? ?
) `` Quoting Mr. Kennan's phrase that anything would be better than a policy which led inevitably to nuclear war , he ( Toynbee ) says that anything is better than a policy which allows for the possibility of nuclear war '' .
`` If Philip Toynbee is claiming that the choice lies between capitulation and the risk of nuclear war , I think he is right .
Even Professor Arnold Toynbee , agreeing with his son , does so in these terms : `` Compared to continuing to incur a constant risk of the destruction of the human race , all other evils are lesser evils .
Mr. Philip Toynbee affirms at one point that if he shared the anticipations of Orwell in Nineteen Eighty-Four , if he believed Communism was not only evil but `` also irredeemably evil '' , then he might `` think it right to do anything rather than to take the risk of a communist world .
On their way to the Heavenly City the children of God make use of the pax-ordo of the earthly city and acknowledge their share in responsibility for its preservation .
It is not surprising that , as spokesman for real estate interests , the National Association of Real Estate Boards ( NAREB ) and its local associations have sought to limit and often ignore much of this pressure .
Recently , a group of the faculty at Wesleyan University's Public Affairs Center sought some answers to these questions .
Several New England realtors were invited to participate in a small colloquium of property lawyers , political scientists , economists , social psychologists , social ethicists and theologians .
How explicit such factors have been historically is evident in any chronology of restrictive covenant cases or in a review of NAREB's Code of Ethics Article 34 in the Code , adopted in 1924 , states that `` a Realtor should never be instrumental in introducing into a neighborhood a character of property or occupancy , members of any race or nationality or any individuals whose presence will clearly be detrimental to property values in that neighborhood '' .
These men -- for the most part educated in our `` best '' New England colleges , well established financially and socially in the community -- under kindly but insistent probing , reveal little or no objective or explicit criteria or data for their generalizations about the interests and attitudes of the people they claim to serve , or about the public responses that actually follow their occasional breach of a `` client-service relationship '' .
the Commission on Race and Housing concluded that `` there is no reason to believe that real estate men are either more or less racially prejudiced , on the whole , than any other segment of the American population '' .
Recent studies by the Commission on Race and Housing and others , however , point to a vast complex of factors that often do not warrant this conclusion .
Significantly , no realtor and few of the faculty present were familiar with any of the six volumes ( published by the University of California Press ) that present the commission's findings .
As far as they were aware , the Connecticut Association of Real Estate Boards had not officially opposed the bill's passage or lobbied in its support .
In 1957 , the Real Estate Boards of New York City actively opposed the then pending private housing anti-discrimination law .
Judicial opinion since the Supreme Court decision on Shelley v. Kraemer ( 1948 ) has rendered racial restrictive covenants unenforcible .
Such judgments are meaningful only in so far as persons are members of a world , let us say a community , that embraces Scarsdale or Yonkers , but is also infinitely richer since it is all-inclusive .
You know that I could hold right here in my hand the little chunk of uranium metal that was the heart of the bomb that dropped on Hiroshima .
That is enough TNT to fill the tower of the Empire State Building ; ;
I have calculated that if I could snap my fingers in one magic gesture to release the power of all the hydrogen in my body , I would explode with the force of a hundred bombs of the kind that fell on Hiroshima .
And then think how little hydrogen we have in us compared with the hydrogen in Delaware Bay or in the ocean beyond .
For if I knew the secret of letting this power in my body change directly into electricity , I could rent myself out to the electric companies and with just the power in my body I could light all the lights and run all the factories in the entire United States for some days .
Then think of Delaware Bay and the ocean and you see that we have a supply of power for millions of years to come .
and I asked myself a question : Suppose I had the same number of peas as there are atoms in my body , how large an area would they cover ? ?
I saw that I would soon run out of buildings at this rate , so I decided to take another measure -- the whole state of Pennsylvania .
Next we imagine our blizzard raging over all the land areas of the entire globe -- North America , South America , Europe , Asia , and Africa , all covered with peas four feet deep ; ;
Finally we go into the farthest reaches of the Milky Way ; ;
Let us focus on an atom of calcium from the tip of the bone of my finger and let us suppose that I swallow a magic Alice In Wonderland growing pill .
A suggestion from Louis De Broglie , a physicist in France , showed us that these electrons are not point particles but waves .
The Island of Nantucket , part of the State of Massachusetts , lies about thirty-one miles southeast of its mother State .
With Martha's Vineyard on one side and the open sea on the other , it makes an excellent trip of about three hours .
To what extent and in what ways did Christianity affect the United States of America in the nineteenth century ? ?
The form of Christianity to which they were exposed was for some the Protestantism of the older stock , for others the Protestantism of the nineteenth-century immigration ; ;
for still others , mostly of the nineteenth-century immigration , it was Roman Catholicism , and for a small minority it was Eastern Orthodoxy .
Throughout the nineteenth century Christianity exerted its influence on American society as a whole primarily through the Protestantism of the older stock .
By the end of the century the Roman Catholic Church was beginning to make itself felt , mainly through such institutions as hospitals but also through its attitude towards organized labour .
Thus `` America '' , the most widely sung of the patriotic songs , was written by a New England Baptist clergyman , Samuel Francis Smith ( 1808-1895 ) , while a student in Andover Theological Seminary .
With its zeal for liberty and its dependence on God it breathed the spirit which had been nourished on the Evangelical revivals .
The great seal of the United States was obviously inspired by the Christian faith .
Here was what was called the American dream , namely , the effort to build a structure which would be something new in history and to do so in such fashion that God could bless it .
Later in the century the dream again found expression in the lines of Katherine Lee Bates ( 1859-1929 ) , daughter and granddaughter of New England Congregational ministers , in her widely sung hymn , written in 1893 , `` America The Beautiful '' , with the words `` O beautiful for pilgrim feet whose stern impassioned stress a thoroughfare for freedom beat across the wilderness .
America , America , God mend thy every flaw , confirm thy soul in self control , the liberty in law .
America , America , God shed His grace on thee , and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea '' .
Some were clearly of Christian origin , among them the Great Awakening and other revivals which helped to make Christian liberty , Christian equality , and Christian fraternity the passion of the land .
Some have seen revivalism and the search for Christian perfection as the fountain-head of the American hope .
Here , too , must be placed Unitarianism and , less obviously from Christian inspiration , Emerson , Transcendentalism , and the idealism of Walt Whitman .
We must also remember those who reacted against the dream as a kind of myth -- among them Melville , Hawthorne , and Henry James the elder , all of them out of a Christian background .
With such a dream arising , at least in part , from the Protestant heritage of the United States and built into the foundations of the nation , it is not surprising that many efforts were made to give it concrete expression .
Significantly , the initiation and leadership of a major proportion of the reform movements , especially those in the first half of the nineteenth century , came from men and women of New England birth or parentage and from either Trinitarian or Unitarian Congregationalism .
Quakers , some from New England , had a larger share than their proportionate numerical strength would have warranted .
We do well to remind ourselves that from men and women of New England ancestry also issued the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints , the Seventh Day Adventists , Christian Science , the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions , the American Home Missionary Society , the American Bible Society , and New England theology .
The Hopkinsian universal disinterested benevolence , although holding to original sin and the doctrine of election , inspired its adherents to heroic endeavours for others , looked for the early coming of the Millennium , and was paralleled by the confidence in man's ability cherished by the Unitarians , Emerson , and the Transcendentalists .
We should recall the number of movements for the service of mankind which arose from the kindred Evangelicalism of the British Isles and the Pietism of the Continent of Europe -- among them prison reform , anti-slavery measures , legislation for the alleviation of conditions of labour , the Inner Mission , and the Red Cross .
The movement to end Negro slavery began before 1815 and mounted after that year until , as a result of the Civil War , emancipation was achieved .
For example , in 1693 the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting of Friends declared that its members should emancipate their slaves and in 1776 it determined to exclude from membership all who did not comply .
In the latter year Samuel Hopkins , from whom the Hopkinsian strain of New England theology took its name , asked the Continental Congress to abolish slavery .
After 1815 anti-slavery sentiment mounted , chiefly among Protestants and those of Protestant background of the older stock .
The nineteenth-century immigration , whether Protestant or Roman Catholic , was not so much concerned , for very few if any among them held slaves : they were mostly in the Northern states where slavery had disappeared or was on the way out , or were too poverty-stricken to own slaves .
Benjamin Lundy ( 1789-1839 ) , a Quaker , was a pioneer in preparing the way for anti-slavery societies .
It was he who turned the attention of William Lloyd Garrison ( 1805-1879 ) to the subject .
Garrison , Massachusetts born of Nova Scotian parentage , was by temperament and conviction a reformer .
Incurably optimistic , dogmatic , and utterly fearless , in his youth a devout Baptist , in spite of his friendship for the Quaker poet John Greenleaf Whittier ( 1807-1892 ) he eventually attacked the orthodox churches for what he deemed their cowardly compromising on the slavery issue and in his invariably ardent manner was emphatically unorthodox and denied the plenary inspiration of the Bible .
Theodore Dwight Weld ( 1803-1895 ) was especially active .
Weld was the son and grandson of New England Congregational ministers .
A strong temperance advocate , through the influence of a favorite teacher , Charles Stewart , another Finney convert , he devoted himself to the anti-slavery cause .
A group of young men influenced by him enrolled in Lane Theological Seminary and had to leave because of their open anti-slavery position .
Weld contributed to the anti-slavery convictions of such men as Joshua R. Giddings and Edwin M. Stanton , enlisted John Quincy Adams , and helped provide ideas which underlay Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin .
Wendell Phillips ( 1811-1884 ) , from a prominent Massachusetts family , in his teens was converted under the preaching of Lyman Beecher .
The anti-slavery movement and other contemporary reforms and philanthropies were given leadership and financial undergirding by Arthur Tappan ( 1786-1865 ) and his younger brother , Lewis Tappan ( 1788-1873 ) .
He regulated the dualities of light and darkness , Yang and Yin , which are locked in eternal struggle .
Modern Westerners have difficulty comprehending this fusion of moral and material , largely because in the West the historical trend has been to deny the connection .
In China , the magical system par excellence was Taoism .
The Taoists were Quietist mystics , who saw an unchanging unity -- the Tao -- underlying all phenomena .
After this form of Indian Buddhism had been introduced into China , it underwent extensive changes .
During its flowering in the sixth to the eighth centuries , Mahayana offered a supernatural package to the Chinese which bears no resemblance to the highly digested philosophical Zen morsels offered to the modern Western reader .
In its monastic form , Mahayana was merely an organization of magic-practicing monks ( bonzes ) , who catered to the Chinese faith in the supernatural .
Promoters of Zen to the West record its ancestry , and recognize that Zen grew out of a combination of Taoism and Indian Mahayana Buddhism .
But the `` marvelous person '' that is supposed to result from Zen exhibits more Chinese practicality than Indian speculation -- he possesses magical powers , and can use them to order nature and to redeem souls .
Proponents of Zen to the West emphasize disproportionately the amount of Mahayana Buddhism in Zen , probably in order to dignify the indisputably magical Taoist ideas with more respectable Buddhist metaphysic .
Actually , Zen owes more to Chinese Quietism than it does to Mahayana Buddhism .
The Ch'an ( Zen ) sect may have derived its metaphysic from Mahayana , but its psychology was pure early Taoist .
This is well evidenced by the Quietist doctrines carried over in Zen : the idea of the inward turning of thought , the enjoinder to put aside desires and perturbations so that a return to purity , peace , and stillness -- a union with the Infinite , with the Tao -- could be effected .
In fact , the antipathy to outward ceremonies hailed by modern exponents as so uniquely characteristic of the `` direct thinking '' Zennist was a feature of Taoism .
The truth -- the Eternal Truth -- is not transmittable by words .
The technique of reality confusion -- the use of paradox and riddles to shake the mind's grip on reality -- originated with fourth and third century B.C. Chinese Quietism : the koan is not basically a new device .
Thus , the Mahayana metaphysic of mystical union for salvation was distilled down to a bare self-seeking , and for this reason , the mystic in Asia did not long remain in isolated contemplation .
As the Zen literature reveals , as soon as an early Zen master attained fame in seclusion , he was called out into the world to exercise his powers .
Exponents of Zen often insist that very early Zen doctrine opposed the rampant supernaturalism of China , and proposed instead a more mature , less credulous view of the universe .
But actually these accounts reveal the supernatural powers that the masters were in fact supposed to possess , as well as the extreme degree of popular credulity : `` Hwang Pah ( O Baku ) , one day going up Mount Tien Tai which was believed to have been inhabited by Arhats with supernatural powers , met with a monk whose eyes emitted strange light .
Thereupon Hwang Pah said : `` If I knew thou art an Arhat , I would have doubled you up before thou got over there '' ! !
The monk then understood the spiritual attainment of Hwang Pah , and praised him as a true Mahayanist .
A second tale shows still more clearly the kind of powers a truly spiritual monk could possess : `` On one occasion Yang Shan ( Kyo-zan ) saw a stranger monk flying through the air .
`` Early this morning '' , replied the other , `` I set out from India '' .
`` Thou mayst have supernatural powers '' , exclaimed Yang Shan , `` yet thou must give back the Spirit of Buddha to me '' .
Then the monk praised Yang Shan saying : `` I have come over to China in order to worship Manjucri , and met unexpectedly with Minor Shakya '' , and after giving the master some palm leaves he brought from India , went back through the air .
In the popular Chinese mind , Ch'an ( Zen ) was no exception to the ideas of coarse magic that dominated .
A closer look at modern Zen reveals many magical carryovers that are still part of popular Zen attitudes .
Modern Zen presentation to the West insists on the anti-authoritarian , highly pragmatic nature of the Zen belief -- scriptures are burned to make fire , action is based on direct self-confidence , and so on .
This picture of extreme self-reliant individuation is difficult to reconcile with such Zendo formulas as : `` O you , demons and other spiritual beings , I now offer this to you , and may this food fill up the ten quarters of the world and all the demons and other spiritual beings be fed therewith .
Pope Leo 13 , on the 13th day of December 1898 , granted the following indulgences : `` An indulgence of three hundred days is granted to all the Faithful who read the Holy Gospels at least a quarter of an hour .
A Plenary Indulgence under the usual conditions is granted once a month for the daily reading '' .
Pope Pius the Sixth , at Rome , in April , 1778 , wrote the following : `` The faithful should be excited to the reading of the Holy Scriptures : For these are the most abundant sources which ought to be left open to everyone , to draw from them purity of morals and of doctrine , to eradicate errors which are so widely disseminated in these corrupt times '' .
The American Bishops assembled at the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore urged the Catholic people to read the Holy Bible .
`` We hope '' , they said , `` that no family can be found amongst us without a correct version of the Holy Scriptures '' .
They recommended , also , that `` at a fixed hour , let the entire family be assembled for night prayers , followed by a short reading of the Holy Scriptures '' .
Since the Catholic Church expresses such desire that the Sacred Scriptures be read , the following taken from the Holy Bible ( New Catholic Edition ) will prove a means of grace and a source of great spiritual blessing .
Do not wonder that I said to thee , `` You must be born again '' .
In their case , the god of this world ( Satan ) has blinded their unbelieving minds , that they should not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ , who is the image of God .
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus .
Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water ( symbol of the Word of God , see Ephesians 26 ) and the Spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of God .
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God .
Whoever is born of God does not commit sin ( That is , he does not practice sin .
Cf. 1 St. John 2 : 1 ) .
If we are born of God we love God .
Everyone who loves is born of God , and knows God .
But grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior , Jesus Christ .
I am convinced of this , that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to perfection until the day of Christ Jesus .
Now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to set you before the presence of his glory , without blemish , in gladness , to the only God our Savior , through Jesus Christ our Lord , belong glory and majesty , dominion and authority , before all time , and now , and forever .
Jesus answered and said to him ( Nicodemus ) `` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he cannot see the kingdom of God '' .
`` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water and the Spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of God .
Do not wonder that I said to thee , ' You must be born again ' '' .
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision but a new creation is of any account .
If then any man is in Christ , he is a new creature ( literally , `` He is a new creation ) , the former things have passed away ; ;
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus .
He who believes in the Son ( Jesus Christ , the Son of God ) , has everlasting life .
It is now no longer I that live , but Christ lives in me .
And the life that I now live in the flesh , I live in the faith of the Son of God , who loved me and gave himself up for me .
Our blessed Lord Jesus Christ , the sinless Son of God , who could not lie , said , `` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he cannot see the kingdom of God '' ( St. John 3 : 3 ) .
`` You must be born again '' ( St. John 3 : 7 ) .
Being convinced that salvation is alone by accepting Christ as Saviour , and being convicted by the Holy Spirit of my lost condition , I do repent of all effort to be saved by any form of good works , and just now receive Jesus as my personal Saviour and salvation as a free gift from Him .
God placed Himself in men's hands when He sent Jesus Christ into the world as perfect God and perfect Man in one Being .
Finally men arrested Him , gave Him a mock trial , flogged Him , nailed Him on a cross and hung Him between earth and heaven ; ;
You can ignore His Book , the Bible , and His church .
You can laugh at His blood-bought salvation , curse His followers , and laugh at hell .
You may refuse Him , spit on Him , call Him a devil , curse Him .
On the other hand , you may seek His favor , humble yourself before Him and beg His mercy , implore His forgiveness , forsake your sins , and abandon your whole life to Him .
He has said , `` Behold , I stand at the door , and knock : if any man hear my voice , and open the door , I will come in to him , and will sup with him , and he with me '' ( Revelation 3:20 : :
What He does with you then depends on what you do with Him now .
Then it will be a `` fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God '' if you have abused Him in your hands .
When I came into being , 15 years ago , I had one primary purpose : to help men and women everywhere to know God better , and through knowing Him better to become happier and more effective people .
All things are possible to God , but He chooses -- usually -- to work through people .
The businessman was Raymond Thornburg .
The minister was Norman Vincent Peale .
For example , early in my life , when one of my editorial workers wanted to find out how churches and philanthropic organizations met the needs of New York's down-and-outers , he didn't just ask questions .
Many of you are familiar , I'm sure , with the story of my early struggles : the fire in January , 1947 , that destroyed everything -- even our precious list of subscribers .
That was when a remarkable woman , Teresa Durlach , came to my aid -- not so much with money , as with wisdom and courage .
And now a million January Guideposts are in circulation .
Thousands of free copies are sent each month to chaplains in the Armed Forces , to prison libraries and to hospitals everywhere .
Throughout these exciting years I have been fortunate for , although I have never offered great financial inducements , talent has found its way to me : William Boal who so ably organizes business operations ; ;
Irving Granville and Nelson Rector who travel widely calling on business firms .
Glenn Kittler has been twice to Africa , once spending a week with Dr. Albert Schweitzer .
Last summer John and Elizabeth Sherrill were in Alaska .
Van Varner recently returned from Russia .
Twice a month the editorial staff meets in New York for an early supper , then a long evening of idea-exchange .
Around the table sit Protestant , Catholic , and Jew .
Each contributes something different , and something important : Ruth Peale , her wide experience in church work ; ;
Sidney Fields , years of experience as a New York columnist ; ;
Catherine Marshall LeSourd , the insight that has made her books world-famous and Norm Mullendore , the keen perception of an advertising executive .
Elaine St. Johns may fly in from the West Coast for the editorial staff meetings .
Starr Jones gets up every morning at five o'clock , milks his family cow , attends to farm chores , and then takes a two-hour train trip to New York .
Arthur Gordon comes once a month all the way from Georgia .
Recently , John Sherrill was stricken with one of the deadliest forms of cancer .
Rumors flew from lip to lip that Fidel Castro was on his way to Havana , coming from the mountains where he had fought Batista for five years .
Already the city was filled with Barbudos , the bearded , war-dirty Revolutionaries , carrying carbines , waving to the crowds that lined the Prado .
Diario De La Marina was the oldest and most influential paper in Cuba , with a reputation for speaking out against tyranny .
My own earliest memories are of exiles : my three brothers and I were taken often to the United States `` to visit relatives '' while my father stayed on to fight the dictator Machado .
When it was my turn , I , too , printed the truth as I knew it about Batista , and rejoiced to see his regime topple .
I was full of hope as Fidel Castro came into Havana .
For Castro was bringing Cuba not freedom , but hatred .
Of this , only 50 cents a day was paid in cash , the rest in script usable only in `` People's Stores '' .
A suspicion was growing that Fidel Castro was a Communist .
What should I do about it , I asked myself ? ?
There was no doubt in my mind that if I crossed him , mobs would appear outside our windows shouting `` Paredon ! !
Then one day , early in January , 1960 , I sat down at my desk , and suddenly I was aware of the crucifix .
Now it seemed almost as if Jesus were looking down at me with sadness in His eyes , saying :
From that day on I began to write editorials about the things I did not think correct in Fidel Castro's regime .
Too often a beginning bodybuilder has to do his training secretly either because his parents don't want sonny-boy to `` lift all those old barbell things '' because `` you'll stunt your growth '' or because childish taunts from his schoolmates , like `` Hey lookit Mr. America ; ;
This happy , always smiling lad with the sunny disposition is our new Junior Mr. Canada -- Henri De Courcy .
Instead of admonishing him to let the weights alone they personally took him to that master Montreal bodybuilding authority , Professor Roland Claude .
And they couldn't have entrusted Henri to better hands because `` le professeur '' knows his muscles from the sterno-cleido mastoideus of the neck right down to the tibialis anticus of the leg and better still , he knows just what exercises work best for them and what Weider principles to combine them with for fast , fast muscle growth .
That's because the good professor teaches only Weider methods at his famous Montreal Health Studio which is located at 1821 Mt. Royal East in Montreal .
There's Gaetan D'Amours who is our newest Mr. Canada ; ;
Charles Harve , who recently won the `` Most Muscular Man '' subdivision award in the Mr. Canada event ; ;
About that time he began reading Mr. America and Muscle Builder and he learned of the famous Weider way to fast weight gaining .
That's when he went to Professor Claude .
In his gym the professor has some of the most `` knocked out '' equipment since Vic Tanny .
Mr. Claude is a specialist in torso development and he has long favored the now-famous Weider Push-Pull Super-Set technique in which one exercise of the Super-Set is a pressing or `` pushing '' movement which accents one sector of a muscle group in a specific way , followed by a `` pulling '' exercise which works the opposing sector of the same muscle group .
So right away Claude introduced Henri to his famous `` moon '' bench and proceeded to teach him his first Push-Pull Super-Set consisting of the wide-grip Straight-Arm Pullover ( the `` pull '' part of the Push-Pull Super-Set ) which dramatically widens the ribcage and strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest and the collar-to-collar Bench Press which specifically works on the chest to build those wide , Reeves-type `` gladiator '' pecs , while stimulating the upper lats and frontal deltoids .
As you can see , in this Push-Pull Super Set the entire chest-back-shoulder area is vigorously exercised in alternate sectors by alternate exercises so the complete torso remains pumped-up all the time ! !
Now when Henri has completed four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting him on four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 2 .
The `` push '' exercise of this Push-Pull Super-Set is the Bench Press done with elbows well pulled back and with a greater downward stretch of the pectorals not possible with the barbell variation .
In the third Push-Pull Super-Set the `` push '' exercise is the widegrip Pushup Between Bars , while the `` pull '' exercise is the Moon Bench Lateral Raise with bent arms .
But as you can also see , it's not a painful exercise at all , because Henri De Courcy -- the `` happy '' bodybuilder -- looks as though he were having the time of his life ! !
The last exercise of Roland Claude's prescribed program for Henri is a single exercise , done in individual sets with a bit longer pause between sets .
By this time Henri's entire chest-back-lat-shoulder area is pumped-up to almost bursting point , and Claude takes time to do a bit more pectoral-front deltoid shaping work .
He has Henri do from four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press ( note the high incline ) .
So with four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , four of No. 2 , four of No. 3 and four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press , you can see that Henri De Courcy has had a terrific mass-building , muscle-shaping , torso-defining workout that cannot be improved upon .
Rarer still is a Mr. America or Mr. Universe of true Herculean build .
Only when the newest Mr. America or Mr. Universe discovers them and puts them into practice are we reacquainted with them and once again see how effective they really are .
The exercise I shall discuss in this -- the first of a new series of articles on muscle definition-specialization of a particular body part -- is the One Leg Lunge .
The One Leg Lunge is a split and all lifters practice this in their regular workouts .
But for purely definition purposes -- used in conjunction with your regular Squatting , Leg Curling , Leg Extensor programs -- a heavy weight is not needed .
You'll need your Weider Power Stands for this fine exercise and here's the way it's done : 1 .
Place your Power Stands in position and adjust their height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy Clean .
When the front knee is straight and locked , allow it to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the sides of the Power Stands .
The most beautiful bed of pansies I've seen was in a South Dakota yard on a sizzling day .
The more I talked with him , the more convinced I became that that was the secret of their riotous blooming .
One year I simply set the plants in the remains of a compost pile , to which a little sand had been added , and I had the most beautiful pansies in my , or any of my neighbors' experience .
The pansies I cherished most bloomed for me in February during a particularly cold winter .
Like strawberries in December , pansies are far more exciting in February than in May .
This delightful tropical fruit has become well-known in the past thirty years because modern transportation methods have made it possible to ship avocados anywhere in the United States .
Aside from this , the average portion contains some protein , an appreciable amount of vitamins A and C -- about one-tenth of the minimum daily requirement , and about a third of the official vitamin E requirement .
Dr. Wilson C. Grant , of the Veterans' Administration Hospital , Coral Gables , Florida , and the University of Miami School of Medicine , set out to discover if avocados , because of their high content of unsaturated fatty acids , would reduce the cholesterol of the blood in selected patients .
It seems reasonable that if general nuclear war is not to be one cataclysmic act of burning each other's citizens to cinders , we must have a manned strategic force of long-endurance aircraft capable of going into China or Russia to find and destroy their strategic forces which continued to threaten us .
Let us suppose the Russians decide to build a rail-mobile ICBM force .
It is entirely feasible to employ aircraft such as the B-52 or B-70 in hunter-killer operations against Soviet railway-based missiles .
If we stop thinking in terms of tremendous multimegaton nuclear weapons and consider employing much smaller nuclear weapons which may be more appropriate for most important military targets , it would seem that the B-52 or B-70 could carry a great many small nuclear weapons .
An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains operating within a specified geographic area of Russia -- provided that we had used some of our ICBMs to degrade Russia's air defenses before our bombers got there .
Survivability of our strategic forces ( Polaris , mobile and hardened Minuteman , hardened Atlas and Titan , and airborne Skybolt ) means that it will take some time , perhaps weeks , to destroy a strategic force .
If our SAC bombers were , today , capable of surviving a surprise missile attack and because of infinite dispersion or long endurance had the capability to strike at Russia again , and again , and again , those bombers would unquestionably assure our military dominance .
It would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately destroy any targets it discovered -- no need to wait for a missile to come all the way from the United States with the chance that the target , if it were mobile , would be gone .
A large aircraft , such as the B-52 or B-70 , could carry perhaps 50 or 100 small nuclear weapons .
Or put another way , the hardest missile site planned today could be destroyed by placing a one-kiloton warhead ( 1/20th the size of those used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki ) within 100 to 200 feet of the target ! !
The lyric beauties of Schubert's Trout Quintet -- its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies -- make it a source of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners .
Recently I was struck anew by the divergent approaches , when in the course of one afternoon and evening I listened to no fewer than ten different performances .
The occasion for this marathon : Angel's long-awaited reissue in its `` Great Recordings Of The Century '' series of the Schnabel-Pro Arte version .
Artur Schnabel was one of the greatest Schubert-Beethoven-Mozart players of all time , and any commentary of his on this repertory is valuable .
But Schnabel was a great teacher in addition to being a great performer , and the fact that four of the ten versions I listened to are by Schnabel pupils ( Clifford Curzon , Frank Glazer , Adrian Aeschbacher , and Victor Babin ) also sheds light on the master's pedagogical skills .
Certain pianistic traits are common to all five Schnabelian renditions , most notably the `` Schnabel trill '' ( which differs from the conventional trill in that the two notes are struck simultaneously ) .
And although Schnabel's pianism bristles with excitement , it is meticulously faithful to Schubert's dynamic markings and phrase indications .
About the Pro Arte's contribution I am less happy .
I , for one , rather regret that Schnabel didn't collaborate with the Budapest Quartet , whose rugged , athletic playing was a good deal closer to this pianist's interpretative outlook than the style of the Belgian group .
From a technical standpoint , the string playing is good , but the Pro Arte people fail to enter into the spirit of things here .
There is a break in continuity just before the fourth variation in the `` Forellen '' movement , and I suspect that this is due to imperfect splicing between sides of the original Aj .
Turning to the more modern versions , Curzon's ( London ) offers the most sophisticated keyboard work .
Every detail in his interpretation has been beautifully thought out , and of these I would especially cite the delicious laendler touch the pianist brings to the fifth variation ( an obvious indication that he is playing with Viennese musicians ) , and the gossamer shading throughout .
The assisting musicians from the Vienna Octet are somewhat lacking in expertise , but their contribution is rustic and appealing .
( Special compliments to the double bass playing of Johann Krumpp : his scrawny , tottering sound adds a delightful hilarity to the performance .
The Glazer-Fine Arts edition ( Concert-Disc ) is a model of lucidity and organization .
But having lived with the disc for some time now , I find the performance less exciting than either Schnabel's or Fleisher's ( whose superb performance with the Budapest Quartet has still to be recorded ) and a good deal less filled with humor than Curzon's .
Aeschbacher's work is very much akin to Schnabel's , but the sound on his Decca disc is dated , and you will have a hard time locating a copy of it .
The Hephzibah Menuhin-Amadeus Quartet ( Angel ) and Victor Babin-Festival Quartet ( RCA Victor ) editions give us superlative string playing ( both in symphonic style ) crippled by unimaginative piano playing .
) Badura-Skoda-Vienna Konzerthaus ( Westminster ) and Demus-Schubert Quartet ( Deutsche Grammophon ) are both warm-toned , pleasantly lyrical , but rather slack and tensionless .
Helmut Roloff , playing with a group of musicians from the Bayreuth Ensemble , gives a sturdy reading , in much the same vein as that of the last-mentioned pianists .
Returning once again to the Schnabel reissue , I am beguiled anew by the magnificence of this pianist's musical penetration .
Here is truly a `` Great Recording of the Century '' , and its greatness is by no means diminished by the fact that it is not quite perfect .
From the beginning of commercial recording , new discs purported to be indistinguishable from The Real Thing have regularly been put in circulation .
On the basis of what they give us we can know how the young Caruso sang , appreciate the distinctive qualities of Parsifal under Karl Muck's baton , or sense the type of ensemble Toscanini created in his years with the New York Philharmonic .
but if you know The Real Thing , you know that what you are hearing is only a clever imitation .
Command's new Brahms Second is a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather than a copy of one .
Like the recent Scheherazade from London ( High Fidelity , Sept. 1961 ) , it is successful because emphasis has been placed on good musical and engineering practices rather than on creating sensational effects .
The Presto Ma non assai of the first trio of the scherzo is taken literally and may shock you , as the real Allegro con Spirito of the finale is likely to bring you to your feet .
The first substantially complete stereo Giselle ( and the only one of its scope since Feyer's four-sided LP edition of 1958 for Angel ) , this set is , I'm afraid , likely to provide more horrid fascination than enjoyment .
As with the penultimate Giselle release ( Wolff's abridgment for RCA Victor ) I find the cleaner , less razor-edged monophonic version , for all its lack of big-stage spaciousness , the more aurally tolerable -- but this may be the result of processing defects in my SD copies .
At the Westminster KC Dog Show in Madison Square Garden , New York on the second day , the Finals of the Junior Class brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this Class .
The Class had entries from as far west as Wisconsin and as far south as Kentucky .
This year several entries from Canada were entered which made the Junior Class International .
It was interesting to note that many of these Juniors were showing dogs in various other classes at the show prior to the Finals of the Junior Class .
As has been the custom for the past several years , John Cross , Jr. , Bench Show Chmn. of Westminster , arranged for the Juniors' meeting before the Class , and invited two speakers from the dog world to address them .
Mrs. William H. Long , Jr. speaks
After the Juniors were welcomed and congratulated for qualifying for the Finals of the Junior Class , Mrs. William H. Long , Jr. was introduced as the first speaker .
In her opening remarks Mrs. Long also welcomed the Juniors and stated , `` There isn't any other show quite like Westminster .
Mrs. Long still feels the same unique spirit of Westminster which she stated the present Juniors will experience today but probably will not appreciate in full for a number of years .
Twenty years ago her daughter Betsey Long , then 13 years of age , won the Grand Challenge Trophy , Children's Handling Class ( as they were called then ) at Westminster .
No sooner had Betsey come out of the ring than Mrs. Long walked into the Working Competition with Ch. Cadet or Noranda , another home-bred product , and won ! !
Speaking from long years of experience , Mrs. Long advised the Juniors : `` When showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement , stop ! !
`` Take away your attitude '' , said Mrs. Long , `` and what have you left ? ?
Aids sounds more like a Pony Club , or horsemanship classes -- riding a horse and showing a dog are very similar ! !
Mrs. Long wished all the Juniors luck in the Class and stated , `` Have fun ! !
The second speaker was Harvey Barcus , President of the Dog Writers Ass'n of America .
Mr. Barcus spoke on the subject of scholarships for Juniors -- with which he is very familiar .
Last year a boy he knows and helped in Journalism won the Thoroughbred Racing Ass'n Scholarship which is worth $10,000 .
Is one of Mr. Barcus' strong beliefs .
He feels very forcibly that the American Kennel Club should take a more active part in encouraging the Junior Division ! !
In closing , Mr. Barcus also wished all the Juniors luck in their Class .
Westminster Show Notes
Instead of 3 a.m. in the past , the Juniors Class at Westminster was held at 4:45 p.m. .
Before the Juniors entered the ring the Steward announced that after all Juniors had moved their dogs around the ring and set them up , they could relax with their dogs .
This thoughtful gesture was well received by the Juniors as the Class had an entry of 46 Juniors and it took approximately one hour , 45 minutes to judge the Class .
Anne Hone Rogers judges 28th finals
This year Anne Hone Rogers , outstanding Handler , judged the Class .
This is the third time in 28 years of Junior Showmanship at Westminster that a lady Handler has judged the Class .
As the Juniors entered the ring , Mr. Spring , the announcer , stated over the public-address system that this was the 28th year that Westminster has held the Finals of the Junior Competition .
Juniors competed last year at American Kennel Club and Canadian Kennel Club , recognized shows to be eligible to compete in this Class -- the Finals for the year .
A Junior who won two or more wins in the Open Class was eligible .
( The purpose of the Junior Showmanship Competition is to teach and encourage Juniors to become good sportsmen .
Many adults showing at Westminster today are products of this Class .
It seemed an almost impossible job for Miss Rogers to select 4 winners from the 46 Juniors entered .
Betty Lou Ham , age 16 , Holyoke , Mass. , showing an Irish Setter , was chosen as International Champion of the year .
She was awarded the Professional Handlers' Ass'ns' Leonard Brumby , Sr. Memorial Trophy ( named for the founder-originator of the Junior Classes .
In addition to showing an Irish Setter throughout the year , she also scored with an Afghan .
Sydney Le Blanc , age 15 , Staten Island , N.Y. , showing a Doberman Pinscher , was 2nd .
Susan Hackmann , age 14 , from Baltimore , Md. , showing a Dachshund , was 3rd .
Last year Susan also placed 3rd in the Finals at Westminster .
From the records we keep -- Susan is the only Junior who has placed in the Junior Classes in both United States and Canada .
Karen Marcmann , age 16 , Trapp , Penna. , showing a Keeshond was 4th .
Most Juniors who were entered in the Finals are seasoned campaigners and not only show and win in Junior Classes but score in the Breed Classes as well .
In 1960 , there were 7287 entries in the Junior Classes .
Next year 1962 , at Westminster , the Bench Show Committee has raised the requirements so that a junior must win 3 or more Junior Classes in the open division only to qualify for Westminster .
Percy Roberts , a leading judge will not be at the International Show this year for the Junior Judging Contest as he has been invited to judge in Australia in March .
It has been suggested many times that a Class be set up for the Juniors who are overage and cannot enter the Junior Classes .
For some time this writer has been suggesting a Junior Judging Class for Intermediates over 16 and under 20 years of age who are ineligible to compete in the Junior Class .
Such a Class was tried out successfully at the Westchester KC Show recently .
The Intermediates in the Class with the Judge were asked to pick 4 winners and give their reasons but their decisions did not affect the choice of the Judge .
At the recent horse show convention in New York it was stated that this Intermediate Judging Class is meeting with great success and will be a great help to future judges in the horse world .
Last year Robert Harris , a leading Junior Handler entered the Dog Judging Contest ( Junior ) at the International KC of Chicago show and had the highest score in judging of any Junior since the Class' inception .
Juniors who attend this Chicago show should make a point to enter this Class as it would be of great help to them .
Superintendents at dog shows state it is becoming more difficult to obtain a licensed Handler to Judge Junior Showmanship Competition .
The founder of the Junior Showmanship Competition the late Leonard Brumby , Sr. ( for whom the trophy is named after at Westminster ) was an outstanding Handler and believed a Junior should have an opportunity to exhibit in a dog show starting with the Junior Showmanship Division .
Some years ago this Class was judged by celebrities who knew nothing of what was required of a Junior's ability to show a dog .
To overcome this unfair judging , the A.K.C. requires that a licensed Handler be present to judge the Class .
If the superintendents do not receive more cooperation from Handlers , it has been suggested that licensed Judges also be qualified to judge this Class .
The Airedale Terrier Club of America and the Kerry Blue Terrier Club of America have under consideration donating trophies to the boys or girls who win with their breeds in Junior Showmanship Competition at any Show .
The Kansas City and the Topeka KCs are arranging that Juniors who win at their shows will be qualified to win points for Westminster .
The Rio Grande KC is also considering having their Junior Classes set up so that Juniors can qualify with points for Westminster .
The American Pointer Club is still continuing to donate trophies to Juniors who win at Junior Showmanship Classes with Pointers .
Traveling through the South -- over 16,000 miles -- with two Great Danes , an Afghan , and a Persian kitten , we've worked up a regular routine for acceptance at motels .
At one time , to most Americans , unless they were fortunate enough to live near a body of navigable water , boats were considered the sole concern of fishermen , rich people , and the United States Navy .
There are more than 8,000,000 recreational boats in use in the United States with almost 10,000,000 the prediction for within the next decade .
Boats are operated in every state in the Union , with the heaviest concentrations along both coasts and in the Middle West .
No matter how determined or wealthy boating lovers of the Southwest had been , for example , they could never have created anything approaching the fifty square-mile Lake Texoma , located between Texas and Oklahoma , which resulted when the Corp of Army Engineers dammed the Red River .
In 1959 , according to the Engineers , Lake Texoma was only one of thirty-two artificial lakes and reservoirs which were used for recreation by over 1,000,000 persons .
If your state has no provisions for the numbering of pleasure boats , you must apply for a number from the U.S. Coast Guard for any kind of boat with mechanical propulsion rated at more than 10 horsepower before it can be used on Federal waterways .
With U.S. Coast Guard cooperation , the American Boat and Yacht Council was formed to develop recommended practices and standards for boats and their equipment with reference to safety .
In 1959 , the Yacht Safety Bureau was reorganized by the National Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers and a group of insurance underwriters to provide a testing laboratory and labeling service for boats and their equipment .
A new waterfront site for the bureau is now being built at Atlantic City , New Jersey , to provide the most modern marine testing facilities as a further tool to keep the sport safe .
In addition to these activities , the NAEBM , with headquarters at 420 Lexington Avenue , New York City , as well as other associations and individual manufacturers , provide and distribute films , booklets , and public services in regard to proper boat handling and safety afloat .
It is important to note the work of the United States Power Squadrons and the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary .
A recent survey disclosed there are about 4,000 commercially and municipally operated marinas and boatyards in the United States , the majority of which are equipped to handle outboard boats .
The interlocking frame we built at the model railroader workshop and then installed on Paul Larson's railroad follows the Fig. 1 scheme and is shown beginning in Fig. 7 , page 65 , and in the photos .
Start with the right-hand piece `` B '' , Af , soldering it to the lower piece `` A '' of the same material but 12'' '' long .
Let exactly 1'' '' of `` A '' extend beyond `` B '' and use a square to check your angle to exactly 90 degrees .
Solder this second `` B '' to `` A '' at right angles .
Position these using six intermediate temporary Af spacers and locate the upper 12'' '' bar `` A '' .
Cap the locking bar spacers with two Af directly under the first two `` B '' pieces .
Drill all No. 50 and counter-drill all except the `` A '' pieces size 43 .
Now unsolder and disassemble the frame except for the two 12'' '' and the first two 3-3/4'' '' bars ( `` A '' and `` B '' pieces ) , which are soldered together .
Drill 20 No. 47 holes in the upper piece `` A '' as shown in Fig. 7 .
As an anchor for the spring lock , insert a Af bar in the lower left corner of the frame as shown in Fig. 7 .
Locate their positions in Fig. 7 and drill No. 43 to match the corresponding holes in the frame .
Drill four No. 19 and four No. 28 holes in the 12'' '' long `` A '' pieces .
Drill a No. 47 hole crosswise through the tappet at the position shown in Figs. 7 and 8 .
To each tappet except 6 and 8 , solder a Af piece of brass and file to the tapered shape shown in Figs. 6 and 8 .
A Barrette Swiss pattern file is handy since its triangular shape with only one cutting face will allow you to work a surface without marring an adjoining one .
For example , let's consider a standard 283 cubic inch Chevy Aj .
Orlando , Fla. , Feb. 2
-- The best 2-year-old pacing mile up to date at Ben White Raceway has been that of Mary Liner ( Mainliner-Highland Ellen ) , a member of the Dick Williams stable , who was clocked 2:25 .
She is owned by Ralph H. Kroening , Milwaukee , Wis. , who , according to the railbirds , can feel justly proud of her .
Other good miles have been by Debonnie ( Dale Frost-Debby Hanover ) and Prompt Time ( Adios-On Time ) in 2:28-:36 ; ;
Kimberly Gal ( Galophone-Kimberly Hanover ) 2:26.2 ; ;
Laguerre Hanover ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) and Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) in 2:34 .
Stardel ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:34 , looks quite promising .
Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) and Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) has been working together but have not equalled their best work done some weeks ago .
Thor Hanover ( Adios-Trustful Hanover ) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual , with solid , rugged conformation , good , flat bone and excellent feet .
This colt arrived at the Raceway early last November , and immediately was put into harness and line-driven for a few days , and then put to cart and broken in very nicely , knowing nothing but trot .
Gamecock ( Tar Heel-Terka Hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2:32.2 .
This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center .
Hustler ( Knight Dream-Torkin ) is a playful bay rascal of a colt , not the best gaited , but he surely can pace and is right there with them , and sometimes leading them , in the best miles .
Torrid Freight ( Torrid-Breeze On Hal ) is a very rugged , strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him .
Torrid Adios ( Torrid-Adios Molly ) is not so masculine as most of the colts , but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers on the grounds .
First Flyer ( Frisco Flyer-Castle Light ) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois Stakes .
Justine Hanover ( Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover ) is improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4 weeks ago .
Mrs. Freight ( Knight Dream-Miss Reed ) shows promise and does it in good form , and her best time is about 2:35 .
Hoopla ( Tar Heel-Holiday Hanover ) , a filly that wanted to trot , knocked herself October 31 and November 1 fighting the hopples .
This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters , Valentine Day and Cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning .
She is more like her full brother , Taraday Hanover , but larger .
Marquis Pick ( Gene Abbe-Direct Grattan ) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time .
Staley Hanover ( Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover ) is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his class .
Step Aside ( Direct Rhythm-Wily Widow ) has worked in 2:32 on the half-mile track and shows promise .
Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35 .
Bonnie Wick ( Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary ) has gone in 2:36 ; ;
Hickory Ash ( Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover ) in 2:35 .
The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself , `` that must be Hickory Ash '' .
Hickory Hill ( Star's Pride-Venus Hanover ) has gone in 2:33 ; ;
Hickory Spark ( Harlan-Hickory Tiny ) 2:37 ; ;
Buxton Hanover ( Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover ) 2:35 ; ;
Faber's Kathy ( Faber Hanover-Ceyway ) 2:37 ; ;
Honor Rodney ( Rodney-Honor Bright ) around 2:40 .
Brief Candle ( Harlan-Marcia ) has gone in 2:37 ; ;
Lena Faber ( Faber Hanover-Chalidale Lena ) 2:33 ; ;
Martha Rodney ( Rodney-Miss Martha D. ) 2:35 ; ;
Checkit ( Faber Hanover-Supermarket ) 2:35 ; ;
Charm Rodney ( Rodney-The Charmer ) 2:37 ; ;
Fair Sail ( Farvel-Topsy Herring ) 2:36 ; ;
Custom Maid ( Knight Dream-Way Dream ) 2:34.2 ; ;
Jacky Dares ( ( Meadow Gene-Princess Lorraine ) 2:36 ; ;
Good Flying ( Good Time-Olivette Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Bordner Hanover ( Tar Heel-Betty Mahone ) 2:34 ; ;
Faber's Choice ( Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet ) 2:36 ; ;
Duffy Dares ( Meadow Gene-Princess Mite ) 2:36 ; ;
Harold J. ( Worthy Boy-Lady Scotland ) 2:36 ; ;
Knightfall ( Knight Dream-Miss Worthy Grapes ) 2:36 ; ;
Next Knight ( Knight Dream-Next Time ) 2:36 ; ;
Trader Jet ( Florican-My Precious ) 2:37 ; ;
Trader Rich ( Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover ) 2:37 ; ;
Good Little Girl ( Good Time-Mynah Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Iosola Hanover ( Kimberly Kid-Isoletta Hanover ) 2:36 .
I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2:34 , last quarter in :35.3 .
Rain on Friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on Thursday .
Those responsible included Stardel Hanover ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Lorena Gallon ( Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Prudent Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:35.3 ; ;
Premium Freight ( Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover ) , 2:30.3-35.3 ; ;
Laguerre Hanover ( ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Lucky Freight ( Knight Dream-Lusty Helen ) , 2:31.3-:35.3 .
Sam Caton's Butterwyn ( Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn ) , a light bay filly , knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2:30-:36 .
Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Lucy Hanover ) , but hopes to have him straightened out and going before long .
Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet ( Adios-Rena Grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by .
He also likes Hampton Hanover ( Titan Hanover-Bertie Hanover ) 2:37 .
Cathy J. Hanover ( Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover ) , formerly called Karet Hanover , has been rather a problem child , but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2:31 .
Armbro Comet ( Nibble Hanover-Mauri Hanover ) has been in 2:38 .
Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's Miss Phone ( Galophone-Prissy Miss ) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait , and she has worked up to date in 2:46 .
Del Mar , Calif. , Feb. 3
-- After 52 rainless days , moisture finally came to Del Mar , resulting in but one workout during the week for most of the horses , and leaving us with less than half our total average rainfall during the season .
While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it .
Work-outs for the week are as follows : Plain Scotch , 3 ( by Scotch Victor ) , Demon Law , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) , Coffee Royal , p ( by Royal Blackstone ) and Beauty Way , p , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) in 25 ; ;
Eddie Duke , p , 3 ( by Duke Of Lullwater ) , Marilyn C. , p ( by Sampson Hanover ) and Chalidale Barry , 5 ( by King's Ransom ) in 2:20 ; ;
Tiger Hanover , p , 3 ( by Adios ) in 2:26 ; ;
Sherwood Lass , 4 ( by Victory Song ) in 2:22 ; ;
and Dauntless , 3 ( by Greentree Adios ) in 2:32 .
For the aged horses : Mr. Budlong , p , 2:00.2 , Lottie Thomas , p , 2:04.2 , Mighty Signal 2:03 , Clever Braden , p , 2:01.1 , and Glow Star , p , 2:02.3 have been in 2:35 ; ;
Miss Demon Abbe , p , 1:59.3 has trotted in 2:26 , and is expected to race at this gait ; ;
Carter Creed , p , 3 , 2:01.1 , Great Lullwater 2:00.3 , and Hi Jay , p , 2:05.1 have been in 2:30 ; ;
Stormy Dream , p , 2:01.3 , Demon Abbe , p , 2:02 , Dundeen B. , 4 , 2:04.2 , Claudia's Song , 3 , 2:06.3 , and ( Jet Fire , 4 , 2:02.2 have been in 2:25 ; ;
Mocking Byrd , p , 2:01.1 has been in 2:12 , with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows .
Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr. Orin I. , 3 ( by Yankee Hanover ) , his latest mile in 2:20 ; ;
Early Sun , p , 2:02.3 , Chester Maid 2:05 , Dark Sun , p , 2:06.1 , and Sun Tan Maid 2:05.2 have been in 2:21 .
As a Christmas service , I've taken a close look at this year's crop of new models .
Such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change arms-making concepts .
Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker ( under $110 ) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans ; ;
Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse .
At least five years ago , Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over/under double rifle for me in this caliber , using the now defunct Model 90 action in 20-gauge size .
We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill Ruger in his first experiments : Three or four bullets would be placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then , unaccountably , one could stray far out of the group .
Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket , and I caught him just behind the left foreleg at 60 yards .
Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire .
At present it's available in one model , the fine and familiar Smith & Wesson Magnum revolver ( about $110 ) , long a top-quality handgun among target arms .
The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard
I tested it in my scoped S & W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun steadily .
The fact that the Deerstalker and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn't mean that 1961 didn't see changes in models , actions and calibers .
Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles .
, Af and the Magnums , the long action ( about $135 for the Standard Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version ) .
Magnum Rim-Fire rifles , 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader ( around $60 ) .
Previously known as Jefferson Arms , Kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design , and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle
Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination .
Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725's .
The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight ( about $125 ) and the 99 Deluxe ( under $135 ) , which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design .
The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 ( about $20 , $5 for a saddle scabbard ) -- a lever-action single-shot patterned after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western look .
There's another addition to the Stevens line , the pump-action Model 77 in ( under $75 ) , which you may or may not consider a kid's gun ; ;
For example , a Browning trap version of the Superposed over/under , the Broadway ( from $350 up , depending on grade ) , differs from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore end , a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast sighting .
The Colt line now includes a new scattergun , the Standard or Custom Pump Model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 .
Firearms International has introduced another import , this one from Finland .
It's the Valmet ( about $170 ) , a 12-gauge over/under very much like the old Remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices .
The Supermatic Trophy ( prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional features ) is a 12-gauge auto .
Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns .
Livery stable -- J. Vernon , prop. '' .
Coaching had declined considerably by 1905 , but the sign was still there , near the old Wells Fargo building in San Francisco , creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years .
Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the Santa Cruz road , upland and through the redwood forest , with orchards below him at one hand , and glimpses of the Pacific at the other .
His patronage on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans -- regulars , most of them , and trenchermen like himself .
Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel , luncheon was somewhere in the mountain forest , and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa Cruz .
Then the Chinese hostler , who rode with Vernon on the box , would break open a hamper and produce filets of smoked bass or sturgeon , sandwiches , pickled eggs , and a rum sangaree to be heated over a spirit lamp .
They gathered roots , bulbs , odd ferns , leaves , and bits of resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir , which exists only on a forty-five mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains .
In the Spanish days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense .
It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar .
They advertised harness polish , liniments , Ball's Rubber Boots , Green River Whiskey , Hood's Sarsaparilla , patent medicines , shoe blacking , and chewing tobacco .
then a porter from Manning's Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head .
Vernon was consummately fond of oysters , and Manning's had been famous for them since the Civil War .
In the 1890's the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager , John C. Kirkpatrick .
This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller made famous by Antoine's in New Orleans , though the Palace chef announced it as a variant of Manning's roast oysters .
( Gastronomes have long argued about which came first , the Palace's or Antoine's .
A replica of two coaches made in England for the Belmont Club in the East , and matchless west of the Rockies , it was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run .
But for the start of the Santa Cruz run , the whip fell .
Here is an original kedgeree recipe from the Family Club's kitchen :
The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast , the Palace's chef , was even more in demand .
For decades it was the most popular dish served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast , and it is one of the few old Palace dishes that still survive .
Native California oysters , salty and piquant , as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece , went into it .
Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace , and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York J. Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco , to attend an Episcopal convention , and brought the restaurateur with him .
As things happened , Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill residence of a magnate friend , whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent .
Twice he left everything to his entourage , and fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance .
In the grand court of the Palace , notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below , Vernon's station was at the entrance .
Of majestic build , rubicund and slash-mouthed , he resembled the late General Winfield Scott , who was said to be the most imposing general of his century , if not of all centuries .
They cantered down the peninsula , not slackening until the coach reached Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin .
The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties , and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed columns ripple streams of rain , even when heat bakes the Santa Clara valley below at the left .
It was the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce , who admired its redwoods .
After this has simmered an hour , add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire , catsup , and chutney , two pickled walnuts , and a pint of Sherry .
Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring , the apples that grow there have a wintry crackle .
The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the Midwest ; ;
Now , to add to the already unbelievable extremes found in one nation , we have the two new states of Hawaii and Alaska .
For this reason , U.S. Camera has prepared this special U.S.A. vacation feature .
We divided the country into five regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover .
The rolling farms of Maryland , the peerless metropolis of New York City , the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast vacation .
By automobile from New York , for example , you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis , Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U.S. Naval Academy ( where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays ) ; ;
or to Lancaster , Pa. , the center of the Pennsylvania Dutch country ; ;
Philadelphia with its historic buildings and nearby Valley Forge ; ;
to West Point , N.Y. , the famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River .
New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches , artists' colonies and quaint townships .
From here you can easily include a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket , Massachusetts , which looks just as it must have two centuries ago .
At Sturbridge Village , Massachusetts , you'll find a completely-restored New England town .
North to Acadia National Park , Maine , with views of a rockbound coast and dark , magnificent forests .
One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City .
Return through New England , stopping for a visit to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan Allen Park .
There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack Mts. and the Winooski River .
The skyline , the bridges , Broadway , and the Staten Island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your `` must '' list for New York City .
Some tips for shooting in Northeastern locales : In New York City don't miss coverage of the United Nations .
These striking , modernistic buildings on the East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are available .
Photos of Conference Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings .
Around New England , you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses .
In color , 1/50th of a second between Af and Af will do for bright , frontal sunlight .
the southern United States , extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west , still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance .
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh , Tennessee ; ;
Lookout Mountain , Tennessee ; ;
Petersburg , Virginia , and Fredericksburg , Virginia .
Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States .
At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings .
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife .
Miami Beach and surroundings feature fabulous `` hotel row '' , palm-studded beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle .
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans .
The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin Quarter present an Old World scene .
For restoration of early American life the places to visit are Williamsburg , Jamestown and Yorktown , Virginia .
Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure are the Luray Caverns , lit by photofloodlights .
The great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas Fair Park with its art and natural history museums .
In San Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish buildings and churches .
The Great Smoky Mountains is another area of the South well worth a visit .
Along the 127-mile route through Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the breath-taking peaks , gorges and valleys which come into view at every turn .
Another scenic spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens are not to be missed .
Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston , S.C. , Natchez , Miss. , and Savannah , Ga. .
At Charlottesville , Va. , shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the University .
For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions .
For some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte , N.C. , , on May 27 ; ;
the Florida Folk Festival , White Springs , May 5-7 ; ;
Singing On The Mountain in Linville , North Carolina , on June 25 .
Peak action photography is your goal at Miami's Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events .
A visit to Chicago's museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer .
Wisconsin Dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from Chicago .
The farmlands forming the heart of America stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago .
In North Dakota the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its wonder on to film .
While here , visit Theodore Roosevelt National Park for its spectacular scenery .
Another spot with an image-provoking name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of Deadwood .
The Black Hills Passion Play is produced every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting .
Of course , while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington , Lincoln , Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt .
In Missouri ( which we are including in our general Midwest region ) you can glance into Mark Twain's birthplace at Hannibal , see the landmarks of his life and writings and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief .
Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks .
Itasca State Park , where the Mississippi River begins , is one of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota .
Mementoes of the Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City , Nebraska , where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your vacation shooting .
Of current interest is Abilene , Kansas , the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower .
There's a museum here and also Old Abilene Town , a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown of the 70's and 80's .
For a resort area , Mackinack Island , Michigan , is the place to visit .
It truly relives another age for the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record .
Night scenes will add an exciting touch to your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along Chicago's Lake Shore Drive ? ?
A re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington , May 18th at Lexington , Missouri ; ;
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis , Indiana , plus a festival from May 27-30 ; ;
`` Song Of Hiawatha '' , in Elgin , Illinois , from June 20 to 24th .
Michigan offers the lovely Tulip Festival in Holland , Michigan , May 12-14 ; ;
the USGA Open in Birmingham from June 15-17 ; ;
and the International Freedom Festival in Detroit , June 29 thru July 4 .
For early vacationers there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs , Arkansas , April 19-23 , and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs , April 20-22 .
In California is located one of the most popular of the national parks -- Yosemite .
Among its most spectacular features are its falls , the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 2,425 feet .
The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of Yosemite , for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten .
In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon National Park .
Colorado's Grand Canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the United States , can be the highpoint of your Western vacation .
Built upon seven hills , Istanbul , like Rome , is one of the most ancient cities in the world , filled with splendor and contrast .
Whole blocks are disappearing and more are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will show off its treasures to better advantage -- the great domes and graceful spires of its mosques , the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden Horn .
For almost 3,000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed shoulders in its streets .
Founded in the Ninth Century B.C. it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas , ruler of the Megarians , expanded the settlement and named it after himself .
About a thousand years after that , when the Roman Empire was divided , it became capital of the Eastern section .
On May 11,330 , A.D. , , its name was changed again , this time to Constantinople after its emperor , Constantine .
In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman power fell to the Turks , the city officially shifted religions -- although the Patriarch , or Pope , of the Orthodox Church continued to live there , and still does -- and became the capital of the Ottoman Empire .
When that was broken up after the First World War , its name was changed once more .
Rich in Christian and Moslem art , Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that recently became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the center of town .
Easy to get to , and becoming more popular every year , it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World Airways jet , four hours from Rome .
Most of the sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern hotels .
I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist Office , next to Pan American's office on the left as you enter the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel .
From there I turned left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left , Republic Gardens , and came in a few moments to Taksim Square , one of the hubs of the city , with the Monument of the Republic , erected in 1928 , in its center .
Directly across from the Gardens I found a bus stop sign for T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that .
There the bus turned right along the Bosphorus , past ocean liners at anchor , to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn , a brown sweep of water that empties into the Bosphorus .
Across the bridge on the left I saw St. Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque .
On the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square , with Yeni Cami , or the New Mosque , which dates from the Seventeenth Century , just across from the entrance to the bridge .
I got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with St. Sophia on my left , the Blue Mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of St. Sophia .
Erected on the site of pagan temples and three previous St. Sophias , the first of which was begun by Constantine , this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed twenty years later .
On his first trip to the finished structure he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon's in Jerusalem .
Nevertheless , it remained one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire , where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned .
In the second half of the Sixteenth Century , Sinan , the great architect who is the Michelangelo of the East , designed the massive buttresses that now help support the dome .
With the birth of the Turkish Republic after the First World War , St. Sophia became a museum , and the ancient mosaics , which were plastered over by the Moslems , whose religion forbids pictures in holy places , have been restored .
Inside over the first door I saw one of these , which shows Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering the temple .
The eight green columns , I learned , came from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus , the others , red , from the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis .
Beneath the dome I saw the spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned , a bit of floor protected now by a wooden fence .
Outside St. Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the Blue Mosque ahead on my left .
Across the street on my right I saw the Hippodrome , now a park .
At the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the German Emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of Sultan Ahmet , who constructed the Blue Mosque , more properly known by his name .
Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed the street , entered the Hippodrome , and walked ahead to the Obelisk of Theodosius , originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 B.C. by Thutmose , who also built those now in New York , London and Rome at the Lateran .
Beyond it I noted a small green column , about twelve feet below the present ground level -- the Serpentine Column , three entwined serpents , which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi , Greece .
Near the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column , a truncated obelisk of blocks , all that remains of a monument that once rivalled the Colossus of Rhodes .
Retracing my steps to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet , only one with six minarets , I entered the courtyard , with a gallery supported by pointed arches running around it and a fountain in the middle .
One of the most beautiful buildings in Istanbul , it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth Century , with a huge central dome , two half domes that seem to cascade down from it , and smaller full domes around the gallery .
Back at the Kaiser's Fountain , I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the Column of Constantine , also known as the Burnt Column , at the top on my right .
It stands in the middle of what was once the Forum of Constantine , who brought it from Rome .
I stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , Bayezit , with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it .
Called the Marmara Gazinosu , it is on the third floor , with signs pointing the way there , and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara .
After lunch , in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava -- a sweet , flaky cake -- in Istanbul .
Taking the streetcar back to Kaiser's Fountain , I walked ahead , then left down the street opposite St. Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small , one-story building with a red-tile roof , which is the entrance to the Sunken Palace .
Actually an underground cistern , its roof supported by rows and rows of pillars , it was built by Justinian in the Sixth Century to supply the palace with water .
Outside I walked past the entrance to St. Sophia , turned left at the end of it , and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead .
Just before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks somewhat like an Oriental pagoda , with Arabic lettering in gold and colored tile decorations -- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet .
Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall , I entered the grounds of Topkapi Palace , home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast Ottoman Empire , and walked along a road toward another gate in the distance , past the Church of St. Irene , completed by Constantine in 330 A.D. on my left , and then , just outside the second gate , I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right -- the Executioner's Spring , where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading his victims .
Passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , I entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in English for each building .
Following arrowed signs , I veered right toward the former kitchens , complete with chimneys , which now house one of the world's greatest collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner services .
In the court once more , I went right toward the Reception House , a long one-story building with a deep portico .
Going through a door into another small court , I had the Throne Room directly in front .
Taking the path behind the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it , the Portrait Gallery , I went right at the end of it , through a garden to a small building at the back -- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans , its floor covered with carpets , its ceiling painted with gold squares and floral designs .
Go a step further and list all the wonderful barbecue basics -- cervelat , salami , Vienna sausages , mettwurst , bratwurst , bockwurst , knackwurst , Bologna , pepperoni , blutwurst -- and you have a long list of easy specialties .
A story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St. Louis , around 1883 served his sausages ( grilled ) and mustard to his fancy customers .
Years later , franks-in-buns were accepted as the `` first to go '' at the New York Polo Grounds .
2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1/2 cup heavy cream , whipped Salt Paprika
Some tasty frank toppings are chili con carne , Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut .
Pattern for circular base piece B is diameter of Aj .
Pattern for inner lid piece E fits inside Aj .
To assemble jar , put paper pattern B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk B on top .
Join B to bottom of A , scoring and reinforcing with clay coil .
Press clay into mold as instructed in General Directions .
Score one side of disk D , join to C ; ;
Add holes in top , forming `` S '' for salt and `` P '' for pepper .
And with passenger weight shifted forward , Hotei levels off for speed under power of a Merc 800 .
A Gator trailer , Model 565 , is used to transport the boat to the waterways .
Besides flathead bronze screws , silicon bronze Stronghold nails ( made by Independent Nail & Packing Co. , Bridgewater , Mass. ) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood resorcinol glue is used in all the joints .
The transom frame is made first with the joints lapped , glued and fastened with one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails .
I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer with a pair of Sure Grips .
The planking is five-ply , 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood .
Plank the sides first , using glue and one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails at all battens , the stem and the transom .
I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter Cable for this job .
Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co. , 1605 W. Elizabeth Ave. , Linden , N. J. .
For padding the seats and bunks , I used Ensolite , Type Aj .
Because of the unique design by the architect Egils Hermanovski , you can build most of it in your own home workshop in your spare time .
These will be available at cost from our Plans Department .
With this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( AjA version ) and the expandable ( AjB version ) .
The wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard Af and Af of a good grade , free from structural faults .
Note : If 1/2-inch panel board is used inside and out , or 5/8-inch one side and 3/8-inch the other , and 1/8-inch glass is used , stock lumber in Af , Af , and Af can be used in making the glass panels .
The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts are of unusual interest in many respects .
The first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected Newbury ( now Newburyport ) with Salisbury Point .
Its building was first proposed in 1791 , when a group of citizens , mostly Newburyport men , petitioned the General Court for an act of incorporation .
This document began : `` No. 1 Newbury Port , may 30th , 1791
`` Whereas , a Bridge over Merrimack River , from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf , Esquire , in Newbery , to Deer Island , and from said Island to Salisbury , would be of very extensive utility , by affording a safe Conveyance to Carriages , Teams and Travellers at all seasons of the year , and at all Times of Tide .
`` We , the Subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to this , or a similar Writing , We will present a petition to the Hon'ble General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts , praying for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge , and a Right to demand a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge , and on like Terms , and if such an Act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares set against our respective Names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times and in such Manners , as by the said proposed Corporation , shall be directed and required '' .
A month later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that the bridge was to be built .
The matter was considered and reconsidered , and finally opposed , but in spite of many objections , the Court granted a charter on January 9 , 1792 .
Timothy Palmer , who invented and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges , was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex , or `` Deer Island '' bridge although the actual work was carried out under the direction of William Coombs , who received $300 as recompense .
This two-part bridge is best described by Rev. Timothy Dwight , president of Yale College , in his `` Travels In New-England And New-York '' , published in New Haven in 1821 .
I have already mentioned that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country .
As Mr. Palmer was educated to house-building only , and had never seen a structure of this nature ; ;
It is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby Rowley ; ;
It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the principle of the arch , which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth , Haverhill , and Philadelphia .
The Essex Merrimack Bridge when first built was not covered .
Richard S. Allen is the authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed by 1810 .
Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published in the `` Massachusetts Magazine '' in May 1793 , which is reproduced herewith ( Fig. 1 ) .
Between the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet ; ;
between the north shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long .
It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter , who was one of the first share-holders , stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the occasion .
The `` Essex Journal '' says that he `` delivered an oration on the bridge , which for elegance of style , propriety of speech or force of argument , was truly Ciceronian '' .
This was built by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette County , Pennsylvania .
An advertisement in the `` Newburyport Herald '' , December 21 , 1810 , shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges .
Information is hereby given that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport , Mass. has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the Chain Bridge , in the states of Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island , and Connecticut , so far as relates to the sale of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges .
`` Approved , Timothy Palmer ''
The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868 , when the County Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways .
Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site , May 28th to June 3rd .
Colonel Frederick W. Lander , impersonated , will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott's ( now College ) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel Benjamin F. Kelley's ( West ) Virginia Infantry , then swarming through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates .
He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops -- thus the old bridge has another distinction ; ;
Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister .
It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic on U.S. Route 250 -- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike .
This covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of June 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story .
So frequently have pictures of the bridge appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known structures in West Virginia .
Completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth and his brother , Eli , of Beverly .
The Chenoweth brothers were experienced bridge builders , and against the competition of other , and better known , bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of the covered , wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike a dozen years before , as well as many other bridges for several counties .
The Philippi bridge , however , was the Chenoweth master piece , with its 139-foot , dual lane , span -- and it stands today as a monument to its builders .
But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when Brigadier General William E. ( Grumble ) Jones reached Philippi while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May , 1863 .
General Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings , including the long bridge at Fairmont , and , after seeing a great drove of horses and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge , he sent his men to work piling combustibles in and around it .
Reverend Joshual Corder , a Baptist minister , gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies , to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure ; ;
Jones relented , he did not order his men to apply the torch -- the drove of livestock was driven up the valley , via Beverly , and across the mountains to feed and serve the Confederate army , while Jones and his raiders turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden .
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned to destroy it , after filling its two lanes with hay and straw -- but for what reason is not recorded nor remembered , certainly not because of pressure from an opposing Confederate force .
Centering around this historic old structure , a group of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned a week-long series of events , beginning on May 28th and continuing through June 3rd , to observe most appropriately the centennial of the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi .
We want to know when the Potlatches telephone exactly how many they are planning to bring , so that we won't end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August .
A BTU is a unit of heat , and the BTU rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can pump out of your house in an hour .
A 1-hp conditioner , for example , may vary in effectiveness from under 8,000 BTU to well over 10,000 Aj .
It costs two to three times as much to remove a BTU in summer as it does to add one in winter , so every solitary BTU is worth attention .
These are inexpensive and available from the U. S. Geological Society , Washington 25 , D. C. .
In recent years many counties and the U. S. Forest Service have taken aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning use .
Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 70th Anniversary for the April issue of Sovietskaya Muzyka is accepted with pleasure , because I admire the music of Prokofieff ; ;
and with sober purpose , because the development of Prokofieff personifies , in many ways , the course of music in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .
The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the United States of America was gay , witty , mercurial , full of pranks and bonheur -- and very capable as a professional musician .
Prokofieff's Classical Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted and well-trained musician still in his twenties .
I heard the Classical Symphony for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927 .
I remember Ernest Bloch in the foyer , shouting in his high-pitched voice : `` it may be a tour de force , mais mon Dieu , can anyone take this music seriously '' ? ?
Certainly , America took Prokofieff and his Classical Symphony seriously , and with a good deal of pleasure .
His life-long friend , Serge Koussevitzky , gave unreservedly of his praise and brilliant performances in Boston , New York , and Washington , D.C. , , to which he added broadcastings and recordings for the whole nation .
Chicago was also a welcome host : there , in 1921 , Prokofieff conducted the world premiere of the Love For Three Oranges , and played the first performance of his Third Piano Concerto .
`` Uncle Sam '' was , indeed , a rich uncle to Prokofieff , in those opulent , post-war victory years of peace and prosperity , bold speculations and extravaganzas , enjoyment and pleasure : `` The Golden Twenties '' .
We unanimously agreed that Prokofieff had won his rights as a world citizen to the first ranks of Twentieth-Century Composers .
Nevertheless , Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during the Twenties : the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western World -- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich America -- the avant-garde Paris of Diaghileff , Stravinsky , Koussevitzky , Cocteau , Picasso -- the laissez-faire Paris of Dadaism and ultramodern art -- the Paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
The world exploded when Fascism challenged all concepts of peace and liberty , and the outraged , freedom-loving peoples of the Capitalist and Socialist worlds combined forces to stamp Fascist tyranny into cringing submission .
Here , Prokofieff became a workman in the vineyards of Socialism -- producing music for the masses .
By 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his people : `` I have striven for clarity and melodious idiom , but at the same time I have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the accepted methods of harmony and melody .
And with what resource did Prokofieff back up his Credo of words -- with torrents of powerful music .
Compare the vast difference in scope and beauty between his neat and witty little Classical Symphony and his big , muscular , passionate , and eloquent Fifth Symphony ; ;
or the Love For Three Oranges ( gay as it is ) with the wonderful , imaginative , colorful , and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet , The Stone Flower .
At this date , it seems probable that the name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History , as an effective Traditionalist , who was fully aware of the lure and danger of experimentation , and used it as it served his purpose ; ;
Certainly , it is the traditional clarity of his music which has endeared him to the Western World -- not his experimentations .
His fellow-countryman , Igor Stravinsky , certainly did not .
Why did Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity , while Stravinsky ( who leaped into fame like a young giant ) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness ? ?
Because of the authentic homogeneity of his early Nationalistic materials , and his flair for orchestrations -- his brilliant Petruchka , his savage Sacre Du Printemps , his incisive Les Noces -- the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical direction for which his native talents were predisposed .
a maladroit reharmonization of our National Anthem ( The Star-Spangled Banner ) ; ;
With a large and circumspect 20th-Century technique , he wove the materials of national heroes and events , national folklore and children's fairy tales -- Slavic dances and love songs -- into a solid musical literature which served his people well , and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large .
Thus in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century .
and perhaps of even greater significance -- his music is strong 20th-Century evidence of the effectiveness of Evolution , based on a broad Traditionalism for the creative art of music .
April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history -- indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States .
On that date the Musicians Emergency Fund , organized to furnish employment for musicians unable to obtain engagements during the depression and to provide relief for older musicians who lost their fortunes in the stock market crash , observed its 30th anniversary .
Roy Mason is essentially a landscape painter whose style and direction has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth century , especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell Cotman .
And like this English master , Mason realizes his subjects in large , simplified masses which , though they seem effortless , are in reality the result of skilled design born of hard work and a thorough distillation of the natural form that inspired them .
As a boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the out-of-doors , its tang of weather , its change of seasons , its variable moods .
But it did teach Roy the basic techniques of commercial art , and later , for twelve years , he and his sister Nina conducted an advertising art studio in Philadelphia .
On the death of their father , they returned to their home in Batavia , New York .
After more years of concentrated effort , Roy and his brother Max finally established a thriving family business at the old stand .
Except for a rich friendship with the painter , Chauncey Ryder who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had -- and this was limited to a few lessons , though the two artists often went on painting trips together -- Roy developed his art by himself .
It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason on numerous occasions , mostly in the vicinity of Batavia .
More often than not I have found easy excuse to leave my own work and stand at a respectable distance where I could watch this man transform raw nature into a composed , not imitative , painting .
`` Of late years , I find that I like best to work out-of-doors .
First I make preliminary watercolor sketches in quarter scale ( approximately Af inches ) in which I pay particular attention to the design principles of three simple values -- the lightest light , the middle tone , and the darkest dark -- by reducing the forms of my subject to these large patterns .
For me , these will belong more completely to their surroundings if they are conceived in this early stage , though I freely admit that I do not hesitate to add or eliminate figures on the full sheet when it serves my final purpose .
Out of long experience I have found that incidental figures and other objects like trees , logs , and bushes can be traced from the original sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they occupy the right position , which I call clicking .
`` If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition , I mean to project equal concern for color .
When this occurs , I make the change on the sketch or on the final watercolor -- if I have been working on a full sheet in the field .
From this point , I paint in as direct a manner as possible , by flowing on the washes with as pure a color mixture as I can manage .
However , first I thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and design along the lines I have described .
Then I plan my attack : the parts I will finish first , the range of values , the accenting of minor details -- all in all , mechanics of producing the finished job with a maximum of crispness .
The longer I work , the more I am sure that for me , at least , a workmanlike method is important .
In my studio I work at a tilt-top table , but leave the paper unfixed so that I can move it freely to control the washes .
`` My usual palette consists of top-quality colors : alizarin crimson , orange , raw sienna , raw umber , burnt sienna , sepia , cerulean blue , cobalt blue , French ultramarine blue , Winsor green , Hooker's green 2 , cadmium yellow pale , yellow ochre , Payne's gray , charcoal gray , Davy's gray , and ivory black '' .
In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason , the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness , yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration here .
By dealing with common landscape in an uncommon way , Roy Mason has found a particular niche in American landscape art .
The artist was born in Gilbert Mills , New York , in 1886 , and until two years ago when he and his wife moved to California , he lived in western New York , in Batavia .
When I looked up the actual date of his birth and found it to be March 15th , I realized that Roy was born under the right zodiacal sign for a watercolorist : the water sign of Pisces ( February 18 thru March 20 ) .
And how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes , and how appropriate that he should appear in American Artist again , in his natal month of March ! !
the Joseph Pennell Memorial Medal ; ;
two American Watercolor Society prizes ; ;
the Blair Purchase Prize for watercolor , Art Institute of Chicago ; ;
and others in Buffalo , New York , Chautauqua , New Haven , Rochester , Rockport , and most recently , the $300 prize for a watercolor at the Laguna Beach Art Association ,
He was elected to the National Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 ( after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy in 1930 ) , and elevated to Academicianship in 1940 .
Other memberships include the American Watercolor Society , Philadelphia Water Color Club , Allied Artists of America , Audubon Artists , Baltimore Watercolor Society .
The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts in the 1960 Olympics for one reason -- they were better .
Well-stretched , trained in posture and coordinated movement , and wedded to rhythm , they presented the audiences in Rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any Olympic contest .
Dance teachers can respond to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular dance work , but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes for strength and flexibility .
This isn't surprising when we consider that over 29 percent of the 11-year-old boys in America cannot chin themselves once , and that English school girls outdo them in almost every test ( even dashes and endurance ) .
Fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute .
By combining the talents of a medical man , Dr. Aterman , a biophysicist , Mr. Berkely , and an electronics expert , Dr. Zworykin , this novel technique has been developed which promises to open broad avenues to understanding life processes .
The medical title of `` Lobar Ventilation In Man '' by Drs. C. J. Martin and A. C. Young , covers a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics to the study of the respiratory process .
At the University of Washington Medical School , the electronics group has developed the `` Respiratory Gas Analyzer '' shown in Fig. 3 .
This unit , affectionately dubbed `` The Monster '' , can be wheeled to any convenient location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's breathing .
A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques .
A refinement of this technique has been described by Drs. Zworykin and Farrar and Mr. Berkely of the Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute .
A good example of the results obtainable with ultrasonic radiation is contained in papers presented by Dr. G. Baum who has explored the human eye .
For display , Dr. Baum uses a portion of an Af , an airborne radar indicator , and then photographs the screen to obtain a permanent record .
Drs. Howry and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have obtained extremely good results .
He was born in the small Danish town of Rudkoebing on the island of Langeland in the south-central part of Denmark on August 14 , 1777 .
The two older boys , Hans and Anders , his junior by a year , therefore went daily to the home of a warm and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in German ; ;
Other brothers later joined them for instruction with Oldenburg , the wigmaker , and also arithmetic was added to Bible reading , German , and Danish in the informal curriculum .
The mayor of the town taught them English and French .
Whatever Hans or Anders learned separately they passed on to each other ; ;
In 1793 the brothers decided to enter the University of Copenhagen ( founded in 1479 ) and the following spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the autumn session .
In this third year at the university , Hans , in 1797 , was awarded the first important token of recognition , a gold medal for his essay on `` Limits Of Poetry And Prose '' .
He completed his training in pharmacy also , taking his degree with high honors in 1797 , and in 1799 was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy along with a prize for an essay in medicine .
Hans' student days were at a time when Europe was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in America and in France , Germany and Italy were rising from divisive nationalisms and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the Continent .
The new century opened with Oersted beginning his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen and as lecturer at the university .
The following year he devoted to the customary `` Wanderjahr '' , traveling in Germany , France , and the Netherlands , meeting the philosophers Schelling , Fichte , and Tieck .
He also met Count Rumford ( born Benjamin Thompson in Woburn , Mass. ) who was then serving the Elector of Bavaria , and the physicist Ritter ; ;
From Gottingen ( 1801 ) where he stayed for 10 days , he wrote , `` The first question asked everywhere is about galvanism .
As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass tubes I have invented , I have had quite a small one made here of four glass tubes ( in Copenhagen I used 30 ) and intend to carry it with me '' .
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks , continuing their correspondence after he left .
Oersted remodeled Ritter's notes into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut De France for its annual prize of 3,000 francs .
In May , 1803 , Ritter , in another flight of fancy , wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy .
Thus , 1745 corresponded to the invention of the `` Leiden '' jar by Kleist , 1764 that of the electrophorus by Wilcke , 1782 produced the condenser of Volta , and 1801 the voltaic pile .
In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
However , he continued experimenting and lecturing , publishing the results of his experiments in German and Danish periodicals .
In 1806 his ambition was realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University , though not realizing full professorship ( ordinarius ) until 1817 .
He was , however , fortunate in his contact with Prof. J. G. L. Manthey ( 1769-1842 ) , teacher of chemistry , who , in addition to his academic chair , was also proprietor of the `` Lion Pharmacy '' in Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him .
In 1800 , Manthey went abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy .
In February 1801 , Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates of zinc and lead .
In the following year , 1803 , Oersted , simultaneously with Davy , discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic battery more than did salts .
The years 1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again , but on this visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws of nature in German and this was issued in French translation ( Paris , 1813 ) under the title Recherches Sur l'identite Des Forces chimiques et electriques , a work held in very high esteem by the new generation of research chemists .
Chapter 8 , is entitled `` On Magnetism '' and in it are included such remarks as , `` One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces with the electrical forces .
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature , as proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb .
In 1819 under royal command he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm , one of the Danish islands , being one of three scientists in the expedition .
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition , Lauritz Esmarch , that Oersted succeeded in producing light by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric current was made to flow .
In the late 1700's Beccaria and Van Marum , among others , had magnetized iron by sending an electrostatic charge through it .
All the additives listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration of the federal government .
Increases gains , improves feed efficiency , and reduces losses from bacterial infections listed under `` How To Feed '' section .
( These enzyme preparations appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis , Apergillus orzae , Niger , and Flavus .
Companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies -- in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged R & D facilities , faster new product development .
The trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs .
Is your R & D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ? ?
Are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with R & D people ? ?
The American Institute of Interior Designers has published a recommended course for designers and a percentage layout of such a course .
An examination of some forty catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design , for the most part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of Schools of Art , and a further `` on the spot '' inspection of a number of schools , show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations .
`` The Dictionary Of Occupational Titles '' published by the U. S. Department of Labor describes him as follows : `` Designs , plans and furnishes interiors of houses , commercial and institutional structures , hotels , clubs , ships , theaters , as well as set decorations for motion picture arts and television .
In addition to this the U. S. Civil Service Bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
The professional organizations such as American Institute of Interior Designers , National Society of Interior Designers , Home Fashions League and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to the schools .
There will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation -- as do medical schools -- by an art accreditation group such as the `` National Association of Schools of Art '' .
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ? ?
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ? ?
Hallmark Cards , Inc. , Kansas City , Mo. , has a do-it-yourself quiz game called `` Benefit Bafflers '' , which it distributes to employees .
M & R Dietetic Laboratories , Inc. , Columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook -- each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe .
U. S. Rubber Company , New York , passes out a form itemizing the value of benefits .
For example , the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington's birthday .
Close to two million game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting preserves , and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas during the 1960-61 season .
The shooting development program of the Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute has successfully published these facts in all major outdoor magazines , many national weeklies and the trade papers .
This has been the aim of the director of the shooting development program , the New York staff of the Sportsmen's Service Bureau , and the SAAMI shooting preserve field consultants since the start of the program in 1954 .
Following the kick-off of SAAMI's shooting development program in 1954 , a most interesting meeting took place in Washington , D.C. .
The group known as the American Association for Health , , Physical Education , and Recreation ( a division of the National Education Association ) initiated a conference which brought together representatives of the National Rifle Association , SAAMI and the American Fishing Tackle Manufacturers .
This meeting was called to determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as the Outdoor Education Project .
The Outdoor Education Project took cognizance of the fact , so often overlooked , that athletic activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life .
Following a vigorous campaign of interpretation and leadership development by OEP director Dr. Julian Smith , today thousands of secondary schools , colleges and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical education and recreation programs .
Personnel assigned through the shooting development program have proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops , at which hundreds of school administrators , teachers , professors , and recreational leaders have been introduced to Outdoor Education .
This program is now nationally known as `` Teen Hunter Clubs '' .
Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation .
The first program was sponsored by Abraham & Strauss , Hempstead , New York , under the direction of Special Events director Jennings Dennis .
Other pilot programs were conducted by A & S , Babylon , New York ; ;
J. L. Hudson , Detroit ; ;
Joseph Horne , Pittsburgh .
SAAMI's field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic young Americans .
Since SAAMI's conception in 1926 , and more specifically since the adoption of the Shooting Development Program in 1954 , millions of dollars and promotional man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot for more youths and adults .
Are you looking ahead to the exploding market of millions of American boys and girls , who will grow up to enjoy a traditional American way of life -- ranging the fields with a fine American gun and uniformly excellent ammunition ? ?
Would you like to organize Teen Hunters Clubs , shooting programs , and have information on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags on shooting preserves ? ?
Ask Sammy Shooter .
We were camping a few weeks ago on Cape Hatteras Campground in that land of pirates , seagulls and bluefish on North Carolina's famed Outer Banks .
There were umbrella tents , wall tents , cottage tents , station wagon tents , pup tents , Pop tents , Baker tents , tents with exterior frames , camper trailers , travel trailers , and even a few surplus parachutes serving as sunshades over entire family camps .
We saw similar displays in the other three campgrounds in this 70-mile-long National Seashore Recreation Area .
The National Parks , always popular camping places , are facing the same pressure .
The National Park Service hopes by 1966 to have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day -- almost twice what there are at present .
The U.S. Forest Service cares for hundreds of thousands of campers in its 149 National Forests and is increasing its facilities steadily .
Among them , according to the U.S. Department of Commerce , are : ( 1 ) shorter work weeks , ( 2 ) higher pay , ( 3 ) longer paid vacations , ( 4 ) better transportation , ( 5 ) earlier retirement , and ( 6 ) more education .
The American Automobile Association , computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile , comes up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29 .
Since the Industrial Revolution , when factories emerged , this classical pattern has been followed .
Among the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of General Electric .
As examples at GE : Glen B. Warren , formerly manager of the Turbine Division , widely recognized as a turbine designer .
The late W. R. G. Baker , a pioneer in television design and long-time vp & gm of the Electronics Division , and later , by his own choice , an individual consultant .
Harold E. Strang , expert in switchgear design , for a long period vp & gm of the Measurements & Industrial Products Division , and who currently , approaching retirement , is vice-president and consulting engineer in the Switchgear & Control Division .
Consultant , Advanced Development
Consulting Engineer , Heat Transfer
Consulting Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Electrical Engineer ,
Many companies have systems , particularly in R & D , which work more or less well , depending upon size and actual belief in the policy on the part of administration , as will be abundantly apparent in subsequent quotations .
We have set up a central R & D department , as well as engineering-management departments -- about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants .
The only ' fellows ' in our company are those who have been honored by ASME , AIEE or AIChE .
`` Above these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president of Engrg , R & Aj .
Sixty miles north of New York City where the wooded hills of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there is a new home development called `` Oakwood Heights '' .
But Oakwood Heights is unique in one particular .
This is a pilot operation sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State Pipeline Corporation , with principal offices in New York State .
Its president is Otis M. Waters , partner in the law firm of Timen & Waters , 540-K Chrysler Bldg. , New York City .
Vice-president is Louis Berkman and the secretary-treasurer is Mark Ritter .
Ritter is the builder of Oakwood Heights and president of Kahler-Craft Distributors , Inc. , Newburgh , N.Y. .
Not a year goes by but what several local companies in the U.S. and Canada , even overseas , write to Fueloil & Oil Heat to inquire if it's feasible and where it is being done .
Its editors only knew of one example to point to , a public housing development of 278 homes in New Haven described by John Schulz in the March , 1950 issue .
Common complaints included `` Mrs. Murphy '' leaving her windows open all the time , a fresh air fan , or the family was visiting `` Aunt Minnie '' with the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil .
A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks the situation at Oakwood Heights .
Called a `` Slo-Flo '' meter it was designed for this job by Power Plus Industries of Los Angeles , a key individual being Don Nelson .
The earlier New Haven development was public housing , so it easily leaped over the problems met in a private venture .
In working out the practical legal conclusions President Waters was not thinking only of this pilot project , for it is planned to duplicate this program or system in other builder developments nationally .
The Public Service Commission has ruled that this is not a public utility , subject to their many regulations .
For a few details of the system the lines are 1-1/4'' '' X-Tru-Coat , a product of Republic Steel Corp. , and all lines are welded .
But it's too early yet to go visit Oakwood Heights .
A primary ingredient in these fields is imagination , and Tri-State Pipeline Corporation deserves a very good mark .
Every year about this time National Gargle Your Cooling System week rolls around .
In the period since the end of World War 2 , -- a period coinciding with merchandising demands for the colorful , the unusual , and the original in signs and displays -- plastics have come on so strong that today they are the acknowledged leaders in the field .
According to a recent Wall Street Journal survey , plastics units now account for more than 50% of all sign sales .
Evidence of this trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies in the field as Advance Neon Sign Co. , Los Angeles , Calif. .
Of interest is a recent announcement by Du Pont's Polychemicals Dept. of a new methyl methacrylate monomer designated as Monocite H 100 , which was developed specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and lighting industry .
Its high impact strength , even at low temperatures , resists chipping , cracking , and crazing , according to Du Pont .
One of the most significant advancements in design of plastics signs is the so-called trans-illuminated billboard , now being produced by several large sign manufacturers such as Advance Neon Sign Co. , Los Angeles , and Industrial Electric Inc. , New Orleans , La. .
As used by Industrial Electric Inc. , the film panels are printed one at a time , as are 24-sheet posters .
Recently Industrial Electric unveiled another new development made possible by modern plastic materials -- a revolving spectacular sign .
Poster Products Inc. , Chicago , Ill. : a changeable copy and display sign which consists of an extruded impact styrene background in choice of colors , onto which are mounted snap-in letters , figures , or words screened on acetate or other types of sheet stock .
The Adaptaplex Co. , Beaverton , Ore. : letters molded of butyrate , available in several sizes in either red or black .
Wagner Sign Service Inc. , Chicago , for example , supplies them in several colors , in heights of 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , and 17 inches .
Still another approach to the changeable letter type of sign is a modular unit introduced by Merritt Products , Azusa , Calif. .
The sheets are extruded of Tenite butyrate by Jet Specialties Co. , Los Angeles , Calif. .
Last wall Bob Schmitt erects is the wall between the house and garage .
Says Clarence Thompson : `` We dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder cheaper than he could do it himself '' .
Five years ago a House & Home Round Table cosponsored by the Lumber Dealers' Research Council reported unhappily :
`` That House & Home Round Table was the real starting point for today's revolution in materials handling '' , says Clarence Thompson , long chairman of the Lumber Dealers' Research Council .
`` With a 15,500-lb. fork-lift , dealers can unload unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for $.30/mbf compared with $1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time '' , says James Wright of Aj .
More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars , and NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 6-B floating-load method can be unloaded for as little as $.054/mbf .
Says NRLDA's James Wright : `` Since 1958 carriers that move material from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes than any of the dealer's other equipment '' .
Says Wright : `` Our survey shows that one third of the retail dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling in the coming two years .
Even `` America's most efficient builder '' , Bob Schmitt of Berea , hopes to cut his labor costs another $2,000 per house as a result of the time-&-motion studies now being completed on his operation by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works .
Builder Eddie Carr of Washington , past president of NAHB , cut his bricklaying costs $150 a house by adopting the `` SCR masonry process '' worked out after careful time-&-motion studies by the Structural Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better work for less .
Reports Jim Lendrum : `` By studying men on the job , we found that two men -- a carpenter and a helper -- can lay a floor faster than three .
If you've travelled in Europe a time or two , it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the Atlantic .
The champagne at Troyes , the traditional capital of the champagne country , has more ambrosial taste somehow than it has at a sidewalk cafe on the Rue de la Paix or at Tour D'Argent .
You can relive history and follow , in fancy , the Crusaders in their quest for the Holy Grail as they sail out from Brindisi , an ancient town in the heel of Italy's boot .
And you don't meet the folks from home in Northwest Spain which has remained almost untouched by time and tourists since the Middle Ages .
They've been there since the days of the Moors and the Saracens .
You can call one of the car rental services directly ( Hertz , Avis , Auto-Europe Nationalcar Rental , and others ) and ask them to reserve a car of your choice , and some transportation lines offer this service as well .
International Touring Documents are usually provided with the car as are road maps and touring data .
A valid American driving license is accepted in all countries except Portugal , Spain , Yugoslavia and Eastern Europe .
If you plan to visit any of these countries , you can obtain your International Driving Permit before you leave at a nominal fee -- around $3.00 .
The charge is variable , however , and goes as low as $.50 a day in Ireland and as high as $2.00 a day in Greece .
As in the United States , there is a flat fee-per-day rental charge plus a few cents per kilometer driven , and the per-day rate drops if the car is retained for a week .
It is well to bear in mind that gasoline will cost from $.80 to $.90 for the equivalent of a United States gallon and while you might prefer a familiar Ford , Chevrolet or even a Cadillac , which are available in some countries , it is probably wiser to choose the smaller European makes which average thirty , thirty-five and even forty miles to the gallon .
If you would like to start your tour in Italy , where the rental fees are actually the lowest in Europe , Fiats in all sizes are available , as are Alfa Romeo Giulietta models .
If you wish to budget closely on transportation , saving your extra dollars to indulge in luxuries , one agency lists the small Fiat 500 at only $1.26 a day plus $.03 a kilometer and the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon , seating six , at just $1.10 a day and $.105 a kilometer .
If you will be using your car more than fifteen days , which isn't all unlikely , the daily rates drop quite sharply to $.86 a day for the Fiat 500 and to an infinitesimal $.30 a day for the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon .
Rates for American cars are somewhat higher , ranging from about $8.00 a day up to $14.00 a day for a Chevrolet Convertible , but the rate per kilometer driven is roughly the same as for the larger European models .
Rates in Greece and Finland are fairly high , actually the highest in Europe , and , surprisingly enough , they are also quite high in Ireland .
There is a fairly wide selection of models of English , German and French manufacture from which you can choose from the very small Austin 7 , Citroen 2 CV , Volkswagens , Renaults to the 6-passenger Simca Beaulieu .
Then , too , European drivers have reputations for being somewhat crazy on the road and some Americans are not particularly keen on getting mixed up with them .
Your chauffeur's expenses will average between $7.00 to $12.00 a day , but this charge is the same whether you rent a 7-passenger Cadillac limousine or a 4-passenger Peugeot or Fiat 1800 .
Since most European cars average more miles per gallon of gasoline than American cars , it naturally follows that the cost per kilometer for these models will be less , but the greater seating capacity of the large American cars will equalize this , provided your group is sufficiently large to fill a 7-passenger limousine .
However , whether you arrange to have a European or American model , if you rent a car with the proper seating capacity in relation to the number of people in your party , your transportation expense will average very close to $10.00 per day per passenger .
Of course , if you want to throw all caution to the winds and rent an Imperial or Cadillac limousine just for you and your bride , you'll have a memorable tour , but it won't be cheap , and it is not recommended unless you own a producing oil well or you've had a winner in the Irish Sweepstakes .
Just about the most enthralling real-life example of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga : reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts , but he said simultaneously , `` I wish they were emeralds '' .
The way MacArthur said his line -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist -- would probably have gone like this : Af Primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; ;
but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo .
This basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed to me by Dr. Henry Lee Smith , Jr. , at the University of Buffalo , where he heads the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics .
A brisk , amusing man , apparently constructed on an ingenious system of spring-joints attuned to the same peppery rhythm as his mind , Smith began his academic career teaching speech to Barnard girls -- a project considerably enlivened by his devotion to a recording about `` a young rat named Arthur , who never could make up his mind '' .
Later , he became one of the central spirits of the Army Language Program and the language school of Washington's Foreign Service Institute .
In the early 1950's , Smith , together with his distinguished colleague , George Trager ( so austerely academic he sometimes fights his own evident charm ) , and a third man with the engaging name of Birdwhistell ( Ray ) , agreed on some basic premises about the three-part process that makes communication : ( 1 ) words or language ( 2 ) paralanguage , a set of phenomena including laughing , weeping , voice breaks , and `` tone '' of voice , and ( 3 ) kinesics , the technical name for gestures , facial expressions , and body shifts -- nodding or shaking the head , `` talking '' with one's hands , et cetera .
The usual U.S. norm would be : Af Middle pitches , slight pause ( juncture ) before mother , slight rise at the end .
Quite other feelings are evidenced by this style : Af Note the drop to pitch 1 ( the lowest ) on mother with no rise at the end of the sentence ; ;
Even less regard for mom and mom's apple pie goes with : Af In other words , the way the speaker relates to mother is clearly indicated .
In one now-historic first interview , for example , the transcript ( reproduced from the book , The First Five Minutes ) goes like this : The therapist's level tone is bland and neutral -- he has , for example , avoided stressing `` you '' , which would imply disapproval ; ;
His own communication apparatus operated superbly , and Lillian Ross readers will note instantly its total lack of resemblance to the blunted , monumentally unmeshed mechanism of Dr. Blauberman .
Naturally , the patient does not say , `` I hate my father '' , or `` Sibling rivalry is what bugs me '' .
Some of the classic indicators , as described by Drs. Pittenger , Hockett , and Danehy in The First Five Minutes , are these : ambiguity of pronouns :
) Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden , in Durrell's Alexandria Quartet , stammered when he spoke of his wife , which is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship .
She was the John Harvey , one of those Atlantic sea-horses that had sailed to Bari to bring beans , bombs , and bullets to the U.S. Fifteenth Air Force , to Field Marshal Montgomery's Eighth Army then racing up the calf of the boot of Italy in that early December of 1943 .
The John Harvey arrived in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , on November 28th , making for Porto Nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city's new and modern harbor .
If anyone thought of the John Harvey , it was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit the John Harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried .
It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt before the John Harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront .
Throughout the early years of World War 2 , , reports persisted that the Axis powers had used gas -- Germany in Russia , Japan in China again .
Influential people in America were warning the Pentagon to be prepared against desperation gas attacks by the Germans in future campaigns .
To silence extremists , to warn the Axis , President Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August :
The following month the invasion of Italy was begun , and Roosevelt gave effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in southern Italy .
So the vile cargo went into the hole of the John Harvey .
A detachment of six men from the 701st Chemical Maintenance Company under First Lt. Howard D. Beckstrom went aboard , followed by Lt. Thomas H. Richardson , the Cargo Security Officer .
It was the night of December 2 , 1943 , and it was growing dark in Bari .
It was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the German Me-210 plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit .
Capt. A. B. Jenks of the Office of Harbor Defense was very worried .
He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning to the attack in Italy .
On November 24th , they had made a raid on La Maddalena .
Two days later , some 30 of them had struck at a convoy off Bougie , sinking a troopship -- and it had been that very night that the Me-210 had made its first appearance .
Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz , the commander who would conduct the `` Little Blitz '' on London in 1944 , a major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered seriously .
True , there had been raids on Naples -- but Naples was pretty far north on the opposite coast .
More than that , Allied air had complete superiority in the Eighth Army's sector .
So Captain Jenks returned to his harbor post to watch the scouting plane put in five more appearances , and to feel the certainty of this dread rising within him .
For Jenks knew that Bari's defenses were made of paper .
The Royal Air Force had but a single light anti-aircraft squadron and two balloon units available .
It had been made shockingly evident that very morning to Ensign Kay K. Vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the John Bascom .
What would his guns guide on then -- the North Star ? ?
Ensign Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering of the bombs , and when night began to fall , he put Seaman 2/c Donald L. Norton and Seaman 1/c William A. Rochford on the guns and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette .
Below decks , Seaman 1/c Stanley Bishop had begun to write a letter home .
Above decks on the John Harvey , Lieutenant Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and felt uneasy .
The burden of his secret was pressing down on him , as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men .
Lieutenant Richardson could envy the officers and men of the John Harvey in their innocent assumption that the ship contained nothing more dangerous than high explosive bombs .
Deck Cadet James L. Cahill and Seaman Walter Brooks had been the first to leave .
Damned if that wasn't a sailing ship standing out of the old harbor -- Porto Vecchio .
Capt. Michael A. Musmanno , Military governor of the Sorrentine Peninsula , had also seen and felt the `` rain '' .
Captain Musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant name Unsinkable had just left Porto Vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed olive oil for the Sorrentine's civilian population .
They had come from airports in the Balkans , these hundred-odd Junkers 88's .
They had winged over the Adriatic , they had taken Bari by complete surprise and now they were battering her , attacking with deadly skill .
After the first two were blacked out , the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian crew , who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon until British MP's shot it out .
In that interval , the German bombers made a hell of Bari harbor .
Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20-mm gun , pumping out 400 rounds before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One , Three and Five .
I can't tell when , but I'm positive I witnessed this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in the past '' ! !
Rudyard Kipling's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered `` how , or why , had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' ? ?
The famous author tells us of the strange incident in Something About Myself .
One day when he attended a war memorial ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` I want a word with you , please '' .
However , readers who accept Freud's findings and believe that he has solved completely the mystery of dreams , should ponder over the following words in his Interpretation Of Dreams , Chapter 1 : :
I recall the startling , vivid realism of a dream in which I lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town .
For instance , the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and , with photographic realism , sees Smith driving the car ; ;
The opening paragraph of the chapter titled The Theory Of Representative Perception , in the book Philosophies Of Science by Albert G. Ramsperger says , `` passed on to the brain , and there , by some unexplained process , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
Dr. H. V. Hilprecht , Professor of Assyrian at the University of Pennsylvania , dreamed that a Babylonian priest , associated with the king Kurigalzu , ( 1300 B.C. ) escorted him to the treasure chamber of the temple of Bel , gave him six novel points of information about a certain broken relic , and corrected an error in its identification .
As a matter of fact , the incorrect classification , the result of many weeks of labor by Dr. Hilprecht , was about to be published by him the following day .
He was almost positive it was not Assyrian nor Cassite , and imagined it must have been German or English .
We may conclude that all six points of information , ostensibly given by the dream priest , could have been furnished by Dr. Hilprecht's subconscious reasoning .
Chauncey Depew , one-time runner-up for the Republican Presidential nomination , was attending a convention at Saratoga , where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary chairman was a man he had never met .
After the preliminary business affair was finished Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt .
One week before the convention , Depew was seated on the porch of a country home on the Hudson , gazing at the opposite shore .
So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents from North Country School , Lake Placid , New York .
The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility for their welfare .
In a climate hostile to agriculture , Mr. Clark has had to keep alert to the most productive farm techniques .
`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
After reading `` Plowman's Folly '' by Edward H. Faulkner , he stopped plowing .
To demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens as it is today , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth .
`` People and soils respond slowly '' , says Walter Clark , `` but the time has now come when the gardens produce delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program .
`` After the soil , the kitchen '' , says Mr. Clark .
Then Miss Lillian Colman came from Vermont to be kitchen manager .
The school has received letters from parents asking , `` What happened to Johnny ? ?
Following a talk by Mr. Clark at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school from Vermont .
Since Mr. Clark believes firmly that the chewing of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth , raw vegetables and raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cookies at snack time in the afternoons .
Even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition , Mr. Clark felt the school had a good health program .
Buffeted by swirling winds , the little green biplane struggled northward between the mountains beyond Northfield Gulf .
A plume of smoke rose from a Central Vermont locomotive which idled behind a string of gravel cars , and little figures that were workmen labored to set the ruptured roadbed to rights .
The girders of a shattered Dog River bridge lay strewn for half a mile downstream .
And in the dark days after the Great Flood of 1927 -- the worst natural disaster in the state's history -- the little plane was its sole replacement in carrying the United States mails .
Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday , November 4 , 1927 , when officials of the Post Office Department's Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight .
From Burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain to the railroad at Port Kent , N. Y. .
The nearest undisrupted end of track from Boston was at Concord , N. H. .
When Governor Al Smith offered New York National Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state , it seemed a likely temporary solution , easing Burlington's bottleneck and that at Montpelier too .
Burlington aviator John J. Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort Ethan Allen , and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots were bringing their wide-winged `` Jenny '' and DeHaviland two-seaters to rest on the frozen sod of the military base .
The only available field that could be used near flood-ravaged Montpelier was on the Towne farm off upper Main Street , a narrow hillside where takeoffs and landings could be safely made only under light wind conditions .
Anticipating delivery of medicines and yeast by plane , Granite City citizens formed an airfield committee and with the aid of quarrymen and the 172nd Infantry , Vermont National Guard , laid out runways on Wilson flat , high on Millstone Hill .
The `` Barre Aviation Field '' was set to receive its first aircraft the Sunday following the flood .
Though the makeshift airports were ready , the York State Guard flyers proved unable to keep any kind of mail schedule .
They had courage but their meager training consisted of weekend hops in good weather , in and out of established airports , And the increasingly cold weather soon raised hob with the water cooled engines of their World War 1 , planes .
Down in Concord , New Hampshire , was a flier in the right place at the right time : Robert S. Fogg , a native New Englander , had been a World War 1 , flying instructor , barnstormer , and one of the original planners of the Concord Airport .
Tall , wiry , dark-haired Bob Fogg had already racked up one historical first in air mail history .
Piloting a Curtiss Navy MF flying boat off Lake Winnipesaukee in 1925 , he had inaugurated the original Rural Delivery air service in America .
During the excitement following Lindbergh's flight to Paris earlier in 1927 , dare devil aviators overnight became legendary heroes .
In Concord , Bob Fogg was the most prominent New Hampshire boy with wings .
The ship was a Waco biplane , one of the first two of its type to be fitted with the air cooled , 225/hp Wright radial engine known as the Whirlwind .
A trim green and silver-painted craft only 22-1/2 feet long , the Waco was entered to compete in the `` On-to-Spokane '' Air Derby of 1927 .
As a matter of fact , Fogg and his plane didn't get beyond Pennsylvania in the race -- an engine oil leak forced him down -- but the flying service and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his wry-faced backers .
So with all this experience , Bob Fogg was a natural choice to receive the first Emergency Air Mail Star Route contract .
By airline from Concord to Burlington is a distance of about 150 miles , counting a slight deviation for the stop at either Barre or Montpelier .
The first few days Bob Fogg set his plane down on Towne field back of the State House when the wind was right , and used Wilson flat above Barre when it wasn't .
Between the unsafe Towne field and the long roundabout back road haul that was necessary to gain access to Wilson flat , arrangements at the state capital were far from satisfactory .
Each time in , the unhappy pilot , pushing his luck , begged the postal officials that met him to find a safer landing place , preferably on the flat-topped hills across the Winooski River .
After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind takeoffs , Fogg one day looked down at the shattered yellow wreckage of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field .
Sent to Montpelier by Secretary Herbert Hoover , Red Cross Aide Reuben Sleight had been killed , and his pilot , Lt. Franklin Wolfe , badly injured .
Faced with this situation , Postmaster Charles F. McKenna of Montpelier went with Fogg on a Burlington trip , and together they scouted the terrain on the heights of Berlin .
A long flat known as the St. John field seemed to answer their purpose , and since the Winooski bridges were at last passable , they decided to use it .
With a wary eye on the farmer's bull , Fred Somers of Montpelier and Mr. St. John marked the field with a red table cloth .
With these aids , and a pair of skiis substituting for wheels on the Waco , Bob Fogg made the first landing on what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21 , 1927 .
During the second week of operations , Fogg received a telegram from the Post Office Department , asking him to `` put on two airplanes and make two flights daily , plus one Sunday trip '' .
Over the weeks , America's first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation .
Became `` Yes , the first half hour is tough , but by then I'm so numb I don't notice it '' ! !
As daylight began to show through the frosty windows , Fogg would place a call to William A. Shaw at the U. S. Weather Station at Northfield , Vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings .
Later on in the day Fogg could get a better weather picture from the Burlington Weather Bureau supervised by Frank E. Hartwell .
Out at the airport each morning , Fogg's skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
) Wishing to show that aviation was dependable and here to stay , Bob Fogg always made a point of taking off each morning on the dot of seven , disregarding rain , snow and sleet in true postal tradition .
Often , threading through the overcast , he was forced to fly close to the ground by a low ceiling , skimming above the Winooski or the White River along the line of the broken railroad .
When driving rain or mist socked in one valley , Fogg would chandelle up and over to reverse course and try another one , ranging from the Ottauquechee up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain passes .
It ticked over smoothly , idling while Fogg exchanged mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen , and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St. John field .
There he'd take a compass reading , figure his air speed , and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he'd be over the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe to let down through the overcast and see the ground before it hit him .
Bob Fogg didn't have today's advantages of Instrument Flight and Ground Control Approach systems .
Usually back in Concord by noon , there was just time to get partially thawed out , refuel , and grab a bit of Mrs. Fogg's hot broth before starting the second trip .
At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present wind off Lake Champlain could readily flip a puny man-made thing like an airplane if the pilot miscalculated .
One afternoon during a cold , powdery snowstorm , Fogg took off for Concord from the St. John field .
The Planning Dept. comes into existence .
Many of you will say , `` Well , what can I do '' ? ?
Ever since I was a child , I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing .
As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles ( I love puzzles ) to put together when time hangs heavy on my hands .
To one and all -- Good Days ahead ! !
When we turn to Noah Webster we find him helpful as usual .
Thus creativity may run all the way from making a cake , building a chicken coop , or producing a book , to founding a business , creating a League of Nations or , developing a mature character .
In our own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a Jules Verne come into actuality .
The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 1941 .
We must realize with Prof. Charles Morris in his The Open Self that `` Man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation '' .
Sir Julian Huxley in his book Uniqueness Of Man makes the novel point that just as man is unique in being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood under family protection , so is he the only animal who has a long period after the decline of his procreativity .
Writing in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures , titled The Nude : A Study In Ideal Form , Kenneth Clark declares : `` The human body , as a nucleus , is rich in associations .
`` The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , declares Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions .
`` A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband's maleness '' , declares Dr. Calderone .
This opinion is supported by one of the nation's leading psychiatrists , Dr. Maurice E. Linden , director of the Mental Health Division of the Philadelphia Department of Public Health .
`` When the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous '' .
More typical is the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage counselor .
One wife , described by a New York psychologist , so dominated her husband that she actually placed their sexual relationship on a schedule , writing it down right between the weekly PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood card parties .
`` The pattern '' , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , `` is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night '' .
After all , the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic figure of long standing , in literature and on the stage , as Dr. Schillinger points out .
Furthermore , Dr. Calderone says , a certain number of docile , retiring men always have been around .
One such man once confided to Dr. Theodor Reik , New York psychiatrist , that he preferred to have his wife the sexual aggressor .
This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner .
`` Grandma wasn't expected to like it '' , Dr. Marion Hilliard , the late Toronto gynecologist , once summed up the attitude of the '90s .
`` Very few wives '' , says Dr. Calderone , `` who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned .
In fact , the noted psychologist and sex researcher , Dr. Albert Ellis , has declared flatly that women are `` sexually superior '' to men .
According to Dr. Ellis , the average 20-year-old American woman is capable of far greater sexual arousal than her partner .
Not surprisingly , Dr. Ellis says , some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities .
Yet , paradoxically , according to Dr. Maurice Linden , many wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them .
`` When the husband becomes passive in the face of his wife's aggressiveness '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the wife , in turn , finds him inadequate .
One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger man .
In any case , Dr. Calderone remarks , such problems are a couple's own affair , and can't always be measured by a general yardstick .
`` As long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference if one or the other dominates '' , Dr. Calderone declares .
`` To get a marriage back where it belongs '' , comments Dr. Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute , `` the husband must take some very basic steps .
Too many husbands , Dr. Schillinger continues , worry about `` how well they're doing '' , and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual play .
She gave herself a title , Lady Diana Harrington .
The New York D.A. gave her another , The Golden Girl of cafe society .
And Houston police have the final say in the matter since she died there on September 20 , 1960 , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
Her neighbors in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as `` the Golden Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial '' .
It was the trial of oleomargarine heir Minot ( Mickey ) Jelke for compulsory prostitution in New York that put the spotlight on the international play-girl .
Diane was needed as a material witness in the case and New York police searched three continents before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course .
She had been moving in cafe society as Lady Diana Harrington , a name that made some of the gossip columns .
Clad in mink and diamonds , she listened to Assistant District Attorney Anthony Liebler describe her to the arraigning judge :
`` This girl is the Golden Girl of cafe society .
`` In 1951 she was a prostitute in New York County .
In the spring and early summer of that year she met a wealthy foreign tycoon who took her to France , where she later met a very wealthy man and toured all Europe with him .
`` At Deauville she met an Egyptian by the name of Pulley Bey .
He was the official procurer for King Farouk , now in exile .
`` We have checked her in different parts of Europe and Egypt and finally back into this country .
She came to New York from Detroit as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone .
She was Mary Lou Brew then , wide-eyed , but not naive .
She had talked her `` boy friend '' into sending her to New York to take a screen test .
An ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she would tell him , `` If you go home now , I'll scream '' .
`` Then she went to Deauville where she met a member of a powerful Greek syndicate of gamblers '' .
The Greek evidently fell for her , `` Monsieur X '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave her 100,000 francs ( about $300 ) and led her to the roulette tables .
The luxury of Paris' most fashionable hotel , the George 5 , , bored the beautifully-built blonde , so she high-tailed it to Rome .
To climax her Roman revels , she was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked through its marble halls screaming for help .
`` There had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom : Miss Harrington ( this was Diane's choice for a Roman name ) , another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and one of your well-known American actors .
In the morning she found rooms directly across from the Excelsior at the equally luxurious Hotel Ambassador .
She thought royal status might come her way when , while she was still in Rome , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt .
Pulley Bey spoke no English .
Diane spoke no Italian or French .
No believer in the traditional devotion of royal servitors , the plump Pulley broke the language barrier and lured her to Cairo where she waited for nine months , vainly hoping to see Farouk .
Pulley had set her up at the Semiramis Hotel , but she grew impatient waiting for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the royal pimp had no key .
Tewfik Badrawi , Mohammed Gaafer and numerous other wealthy members of Cairo society enjoyed her company .
The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane's little world , but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution to bring it down .
When Farouk was overthrown , police picked up his personal pimp , Pulley Bey .
The cagey Pulley Bey , who spoke no English , had taken the passport so that Diane couldn't leave the country without his approval .
Officials provided a temporary passport , good only for return to the United States .
And return to the United States she did , into waiting arms -- the unromantic ones of the New York District Attorney's office .
Held as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of Mickey Jelke , the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed to the Women's House of Detention , a terribly overcrowded prison .
It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a hotel room , with her meals taken at Vesuvio's , an excellent Italian restaurant .
Newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated that she was co-operating with the District Attorney .
With the end of the trial Diane disappeared from New York .
It was no longer fashionable to be seen with fabulous `` Lady Harrington '' .
Several years ago she married a Houston business man , Robert Graham .
She later divorced Graham , who is believed to have moved to Bolivia .
She had had a party with a regular visitor , Dr. William W. McClellan .
I am selling the stuff of which is made one of the Great American Dreams -- wall-to-wall carpeting .
Franklin D. Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs. Claire Shaefer , accompanied by a friend , visited him in Bakersfield , California , several months ago as a prospective patient .
As he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer's body , Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo .
Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs. Shaefer to buy his machine when she visited him the next day .
When she submitted to his treatment with the capsules , Mrs. Shaefer felt intense pain .
Leaving Lee's office , Mrs. Shaefer hurried over to her family physician , who treated her for burned tissue .
Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone machines .
For Mrs. Shaefer -- who had been given a clean bill of health by her own physician at the time she visited Lee -- and her friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection Bureau .
And she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the evidence of Lee's quack shenanigans , gathered by the tape recorder under her friend's clothing , proved adequate in court for convicting Franklin D. Lee .
The charge : violation of the California Medical Practices Act by practicing medicine without a license and selling misbranded drugs .
The machine quack makes his Rube Goldberg devices out of odds and ends of metals , wires , and radio parts .
He milks the latest scientific advances , translating them into his own special Buck Rogers vocabulary to huckster his fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual impotence and cancer .
According to the Food And Drug Administration ( FDA ) , `` Doctor '' Ghadiali , Dr. Albert Abrams and his clique , and Dr. Wilhelm Reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , respectively , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines .
Authorities believe that many of the Doctor Frauds using these false health gadgets are still in business .
Sarah Gross , a dress shop proprietor , paid $1020 to a masseur , and Mr. A. , a laborer , paid $4200 to a chiropractor for treatment with two fake health machines -- the `` radioclast '' and the `` diagnometer '' .
That's why the FDA , the American Medical Association ( AMA ) , and the National Better Business Bureau ( BBB ) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical charlatans annually .
The Postmaster General recently reported that mail order frauds -- among which fake therapeutic devices figure prominently -- are at the highest level in history .
Similarly , the American Cancer Society ( ACS ) , the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation , and the BBB have each stated lately that medical quackery is at a new high .
Typically , Sarah Gross and Mr. A both lost more than their money as the result of their experiences with their Cleveland quacks .
And there was the case of Tom Hepker , a machinist , who was referred by a friend to a health machine quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine .
In such diseases as cancer , tuberculosis , and heart disease , early diagnosis and treatment are so vital that the waste of time by the patient with Doctor Fraud's cure-all gadget can prove fatal .
In Chicago , some time ago , Mr. H. , age 27 , a diabetic since he was six , stopped using insulin because he had bought a `` magic spike '' -- a glass tube about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small fraction of a cent -- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $306 as a cure-all .
Doris Hull , suffering from tuberculosis , was taken by her husband to see Otis G. Carroll , a sanipractor -- a licensed drugless healer -- in Spokane .
Carroll diagnosed Mrs. Hull by taking a drop of blood from her ear and putting it on his `` radionic '' machine and twirling some knobs ( fee $50 ) .
Inevitably , Mrs. Hull died of starvation and tuberculosis , weighing 60 pounds .
In California , a few years ago , a ghoul by the name of H. F. Bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
`` Unfortunately '' , says Chief Postal Inspector David H. Stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often cannot be successfully prosecuted because the patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up in court '' .
Says Wallace F. Jannsen , director of the FDA's Division of Public Information : `` Quacks are apt to direct their appeal directly to older people , or to sufferers from chronic ailments such as arthritis , rheumatism , diabetes , and cancer .
The victims of the quacks are frequently poor people , like Mr. A. , who scrape up their life savings to offer as a sacrifice to Doctor Fraud's avarice .
Ten-year-old Richard Stewart had been irritable and quarrelsome for almost a year .
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart were puzzled and concerned .
Then one day Dick's classmate Jimmy , from next door , let the cat out of the bag .
The youngsters in the boys' class had nicknamed Dick `` Bugs Bunny '' because his teeth protruded .
`` The majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form of orthodontic treatment '' , says Dr. Allan G. Brodie , professor and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field .
In certain cases , as in Dick Stewart's , a child's personality is affected .
`` For these and other reasons '' , says Dr. Brodie , `` orthodontics can prolong the life of teeth '' .
`` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , explains Dr. Brodie .
Work that might cost $500 to $750 in the South could cost $750 to $1,200 in New York City or Chicago .
`` Factors in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill and education of the practitioner '' , says Dr. Brodie .
`` Costs may seem high , but they used to be even higher '' , says Dr. Brodie .
In many cities in the United States clinics associated with dental schools will take patients at a nominal fee .
`` Nature often takes care of the problem '' , says Dr. Brodie .
That is why Dr. Brodie asks parents not to insist , against their dentist's advice , that their child have orthodontic work done too early .
`` After your child's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it's time for that first dental appointment '' , Dr. Brodie advises .
The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated state , so that the sitter can make comments , ask and answer questions , instead of talking with a `` control '' who speaks through an entranced sensitive .
Dr. Karlis Osis , Director of Research at the Parapsychology Foundation , described the basis for the experiment in a tomorrow article , ( `` New Research On Survival After Death '' , Spring 1958 ) .
It is , of course , easy to see how `` J '' will mean Uncle Jack to one person and little Jane to another .
So , after the sitting has been held , several readings at one time are mailed , and the distant sitter ( whose name or whose communicator's name was given to the medium ) must mark each little item as Correct ( Hit ) , Incorrect ( Miss ) , Doubtful , or Especially Significant ( applying to him and , he feels , not to anyone else ) .
All these evaluations are then totted up and tabulated , by adding up the Hits and Significants , with the weight placed on those in the sitter's own reading .
`` I feel cold '' , the medium says , or `` My leg aches '' , `` My head is heavy '' .
Or perhaps she hears words or sounds : `` There's such a noise of loud machinery '' , or `` I hear a child crying '' , or `` He says we're all here and glad to see you '' .
The gruesome humor of the Nazis was not forgotten -- the gas chamber with a sign on it with the name of a Jewish foundation and bearing a copper Star of David -- nor the gratuitous sadism of SS officers .
Public relations strategists everywhere , watching the reaction of the German press , the liberal press , the lunatic-fringe press , listening to their neighbors , studying interviews with men and women on the street , cried out : Too much , too much -- the mind of the audience is becoming dulled , the horrors are losing their effect .
Most of this testimony may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total Nazi crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it of the defendant's Department of Jewish Affairs .
Those who feared `` emotionalism '' at the Trial showed less understanding than Dr. Servatius of the route by which man achieves the distance necessary for fairness toward enemies .
Interruptions came largely from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the Attorney General for letting his witnesses run on , though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow .
But there was a contrast even more decisive than a hunger for fact between the Trial in Jerusalem and those in Moscow and New York .
In each of the last , the trial marked the beginning of a new course : in Moscow the liquidation of the Old Bolsheviks and the tightening of Stalin's dictatorship ; ;
But what could the Eichmann Trial initiate ? ?
`` It is not an individual that is in the dock at this historical trial '' -- said Ben Gurion , `` and not the Nazi regime alone -- but anti-Semitism throughout history '' .
How could supplying Eichmann with a platform on which to maintain that one could collaborate in the murder of millions of Jews without being an anti-semite contribute to a verdict against anti-Semitism ? ?
And if it was not an individual who was in the dock , why was the Trial , as we shall observe later , all but scuttled in the attempt to prove Eichmann a `` fiend '' ? ?
But in either event he was the wrong man for the kind of case outlined by Ben Gurion and set forth in the indictment .
Shout at Eichmann though he might , the Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally recognized category of anti-Semitism .
Yes , he believed that the Jews were `` enemies of the Reich '' , and such a belief is , of course , typical of `` patriotic '' anti-Semites ; ;
In regard to Eichmann , it was to be found in the Nazi outlook , which contained a principle separate from and far worse than anti-Semitism , a principle by which the poison of anti-Semitism itself was made more virulent .
Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could , as Eichmann declared , feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer .
Not through fear of disobeying orders , as Eichmann kept trying to explain , but through a peculiar giddiness that began in a half-acceptance of the vicious absurdities contained in the Nazi interpretation of history and grew with each of Hitler's victories into a permanent light-mindedness and sense of magical rightness that was able to respond to any proposal , and the more outrageous the better , `` Well , let's try it '' .
At any rate , the substance of Eichmann's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the SS , and though the Prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews , his success on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to that extent .
But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .
If anti-Semitism was on trial in Jerusalem , why was it not identified , and with enough emphasis to capture the notice of the world press , in its connection with the activities of Eichmann's Department of Jewish Affairs , as exemplified by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites in Germany , as well as in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary ? ?
The infamous Wansee Conference called by Heydrich in January 1942 , to organize the material and technical means to put to death the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe , was attended by representatives of major organs of the German state , including the Reich Minister of the Interior , the State Secretary in charge of the Four Year Plan , the Reich Minister of Justice , the Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs .
Heydrich , in opening the Conference , followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order issued earlier by Goering which authorized the Final Solution as `` a complement to '' previous `` solutions '' for eliminating the Jews from German living space through violence , economic strangulation , forced emigration , and evacuation .
Not in Eichmann's anti-Semitism but in the anti-Semitism of the sober German man of affairs lay the potential warning of the Trial .
No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich had conceived their anti-Semitism as an `` innocent '' dislike of Jews , as do others like them today .
The Final Solution proved that the Jew-baiter of any variety exposes himself as being implicated in the criminality and madness of others .
The Prosecutor in his opening remarks did refer to `` the germ of anti-Semitism '' among the Germans which Hitler `` stimulated and transformed '' .
But if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann's head at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned , the press seems to have missed it .
Do patriots everywhere know enough about how the persecution of the Jews in Germany and later in the occupied countries contributed to terrorizing the populations , splitting apart individuals and groups , arousing the meanest and most dishonest impulses , pulverizing trust and personal dignity , and finally forcing people to follow their masters into the abyss by making them partners in unspeakable crimes ? ?
The career of Eichmann made the Trial a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization : fearful of being mistaken for a Jew , he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform ; ;
But though this characterization in no way diminished Eichmann's guilt , the Prosecutor , more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a political one , would have none of it .
Finally , if the mission of the Trial was to convict anti-Semitism , how could it have failed to post before the world the contrasting fates of the countries in which the Final Solution was aided by native Jew-haters -- i.e. , Germany , Poland , Hungary , Czechoslovakia -- and those in which it met the obstacle of human solidarity -- Denmark , Holland , Italy , Bulgaria , France ? ?
As the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete ( though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence ) .
It is already difficult to recall how little we knew before the Trial of what had been done to the Jews of Europe .
most of the information elicited in Jerusalem had been brought to the surface by the numerous War Crimes tribunals and investigating commissions , and by reports , memoirs , and survivors' accounts .
In Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , , in 1952 , a Roman Catholic hospital presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff .
In New York City in 1958 , the city's Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device .
He thereby precipitated a bitter controversy involving Protestants , Jews and Roman Catholics that continued for two months , until the city's Board of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy .
A year later in Albany , N.Y. , a Roman Catholic hospital barred an orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood Association .
`` All too frequently '' , points out James O'Gara , managing editor of Commonweal , `` Catholics run roughshod over Protestant sensibilities in this matter , by failure to consider the reasoning behind the Protestant position and , particularly , by their jibes at the fact that Protestant opinion on birth control has changed in recent decades '' .
The second step is to recognize the substantial agreement -- frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting -- already existing between Catholics and Non-Catholics concerning the over-all objectives of family planning .
Instead of Catholics' being obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number of offspring , as many Non-Catholics imagine , the ideal of responsible parenthood is stressed .
The Roman Catholic Church , however , sanctions a much more liberal policy on family planning .
Catholics , Protestants and Jews are in agreement over the objectives of family planning , but disagree over the methods to be used .
The Roman Catholic Church sanctions only abstention or the rhythm method , also known as the use of the infertile or safe period .
The Church considers this to be the method provided by nature and its divine Author : It involves no frustration of nature's laws , but simply an intelligent and disciplined use of them .
With the exception of the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox Catholic Churches , most churches make no moral distinction between rhythm and mechanical or chemical contraceptives , allowing the couple free choice .
The grounds for the Church's position are Scriptural ( Old Testament ) , the teachings of the fathers and doctors of the early Church , the unbroken tradition of nineteen centuries , the decisions of the highest ecclesiastical authority and the natural law .
The latter plays a prominent role in Roman Catholic theology and is considered decisive , entirely apart from Scripture , in determining the ethical character of birth-prevention methods .
The Roman Catholic natural-law tradition regards as self-evident that the primary objective purpose of the conjugal act is procreation and that the fostering of the mutual love of the spouses is the secondary and subjective end .
This conclusion is based on two propositions : that man by the use of his reason can ascertain God's purpose in the universe and that God makes known His purpose by certain `` given '' physical arrangements .
Believing that God is the Author of this law and of all laws of nature , Roman Catholics believe that they are obliged to obey those laws , not frustrate or mock them .
Let it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between Protestants and Roman Catholics appear to be irreconcilable .
Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed to this temptation in the past .
Consider what happened during World War 1 , , when the Protestant churches united to push the Prohibition law through Congress .
With over four million American men away at war , Protestants forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general public .
Today , the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches stand virtually alone in holding that conviction .
The various Lambeth Conferences , expressing the Anglican viewpoint , mirror the gradual change that has taken place among Protestants generally .
In 1920 , the Lambeth Conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception and issued `` an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural means for the avoidance of conception , together with the grave dangers -- physical , moral , and religious -- thereby incurred , and against the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race '' .
Denouncing the view that the sexual union is an end in itself , the Conference declared : `` We steadfastly uphold what must always be regarded as the governing considerations of Christian marriage .
In 1930 , the Lambeth Conference again affirmed the primary purpose of marriage to be the procreation of children , but conceded that , in certain limited circumstances , contraception might be morally legitimate .
In 1958 , the Conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by God on parents everywhere .
Many other Protestant denominations preceded the Anglicans in such action .
In March , 1931 , 22 out of 28 members of a committee of the Federal Council of Churches ratified artificial methods of birth control .
This development is reflected in the action taken in February , 1961 , by the general board of the National Council of Churches , the largest Protestant organization in the Aj .
The general board declared : `` Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right .
An action once universally condemned by all Christian churches and forbidden by the civil law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of Protestant denominations , but also deemed , at certain times , to be a positive religious duty .
On April 17 , 1610 , the sturdy little three-masted bark , Discovery , weighed anchor in St. Katherine's Pool , London , and floated down the Thames toward the sea .
She carried , besides her captain , a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration of the Arctic waters of North America .
Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay .
Second , they believed it important to determine the fate of the captain -- a man whose name is permanently stamped on our maps , on American towns and counties , on a great American river , and on half a million square miles of Arctic seas .
The name : Henry Hudson .
Each time his objective had been the same -- a direct water passage from Western Europe to the Far East .
In 1607 and 1608 , the English Muscovy Company had sent him northward to look for a route over the North Pole or across the top of Russia .
Twice he had failed , and the Muscovy Company indicated it would not back him again .
In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave him two learned geographers , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors .
This time he turned westward , to the middle Atlantic coast of North America .
His chief discovery was important -- the Great North ( later , the Hudson ) River -- but it produced no northwest passage .
When the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , word of Hudson's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived .
The government forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship .
By springtime , he was supported by a rich merchant syndicate under the patronage of Henry , Prince of Wales .
A century of exploration had established that a great land mass , North and South America , lay between Europe and the Indies .
In fact , Hudson's sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes .
Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' .
He named this opening , between Baffin Island and Labrador , the `` Furious Overfall '' .
( Later , it was to be called Hudson Strait .
In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back .
Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames .
On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case .
On the third voyage , a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch and English crew members on the Half Moon had almost forced him to head the ship back to Amsterdam in Mid-Atlantic .
Of only one could he be sure -- young John Hudson , his second son .
The mate , Robert Juet , who had kept the journal on the Half Moon , was experienced -- but he was a bitter old man , ready to complain or desert at any opportunity .
Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing against Hudson in a crisis .
It is believed that Hudson was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was trained on company ships .
( The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage .
There at the river's edge waited one Henry Greene , whom Hudson listed as a `` clerk '' .
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board and he had Greene wait at Gravesend , where the Discovery picked him up .
For the first three weeks , the ship skirted up the east coast of Great Britain , then turned westward .
On May 11 , she reached Iceland .
Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the crew called `` Lousie Bay '' .
With Hudson looking on , his protege Greene picked a fight with the ship's surgeon , Edward Wilson .
The issue was settled on shore , Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore , determined to catch the next fishing boat back to England .
With difficulty , Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship , and they sailed from Iceland .
Early in June , the Discovery passed `` Desolation '' ( southern Greenland ) and in mid-June entered the `` Furious Overfall '' .
The ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic North Pole .
As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait .
For weeks he had been saying that Hudson's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd .
Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable .
All through July the Discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands .
On August 3 , two massive headlands reared out of the mists -- great gateways never before , so far as Hudson knew , seen by Europeans .
Hudson named the capes Digges and Wolstenholme , for two of his backers .
Hudson pointed the Discovery down the east coast of the newly discovered sea ( now called Hudson Bay ) , confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the Pacific .
For he seemed to sense at once that before him was no South Sea , but the solid bulk of the North American continent .
Hundreds of miles to the north , the route back to England through the `` Furious Overfall '' was again filling with ice .
Hands on Bible , seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords in their cabins .
Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted bloodshed on the ship .
The new mate was Robert Bylot , talented but inexperienced .
The important result , however , was that Juet and Francis Clemens , the deposed boatswain , became Hudson's sworn enemies .
Once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed .
Michael Butt and Adame Moore were thrown off the capstan and badly injured .
The anchor cable would have been lost overboard , but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever it with his axe .
Thomas Douglas , fifth Earl of Selkirk , a noble humanitarian Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands , conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River of the North .
Since the land he desired lay within the great northern empire of the Hudson's Bay Company , he purchased great blocks of the Comany's stock with the view to controlling its policies .
Having achieved this end , he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the valleys of the Red and Assiniboine rivers .
The grant , which stretched southward to Lake Traverse -- the headwaters of the Red -- was made in May , 1811 , and by October of that year a small group of Scots was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay .
Thus at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle of Tippecanoe , Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the North American continent to the west of the American agricultural frontier .
Seven hundred miles south of York Factory , at `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 .
By October the little colony about Fort Douglas ( present-day Winnipeg ) numbered 100 .
Within a few years the Scots , engaged in breaking the thick sod and stirring the rich soil of the valley , were joined by a group called Meurons .
The latter , members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported by Great Britain to Canada to fight the Americans in the War of 1812 , had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of the war in 1815 .
Selkirk persuaded eighty men and four officers to go to Red River where they were to serve as a military force to protect his settlers from the hostile Northwest Company which resented the intrusion of farmers into the fur traders' empire .
When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed , all but fifty of the Scots , Swiss and metis moved up the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river .
Here they built huts and a stockade named Fort Daer after Selkirk's barony in Scotland .
The new site was somewhat warmer than Fort Douglas and much closer to the great herds of buffalo on which the settlement must depend for food .
The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move southward by British fur traders .
For many years the Northwest Company had its southern headquarters at Prairie Du Chien on the Mississippi River , some 300 miles southeast of present-day St. Paul , Minnesota .
When in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm out of the United States , its British-born employees , now become American citizens -- Joseph Rolette , Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly -- continued in the fur business .
On Big Stone Lake near the headwaters of the Red River , Robert Dickson , Superintendent of the Western Indian Department of Canada , had a trading post and planned in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small artillery pieces .
His trading goods came from Canada to the Forks of Red River and from Selkirk's settlement he brought them south in carts .
These carts were of a type devised in Pembina in the days of Alexander Henry the Younger about a decade before the Selkirk colony was begun .
It was Dickson who suggested to Lord Selkirk that he return to the Atlantic coast by way of the United States .
In September 1817 at Fort Daer ( Pembina ) Dickson met the noble lord whom , with the help of a band of Sioux , he escorted to Prairie Du Chien .
During the trip Selkirk decided that the route through Illinois territory to Indiana and the eastern United States was the best route for goods from England to reach Red River and that the United States was a better source of supply for many goods than either Canada or England .
Upon arriving at Baltimore , Selkirk on December 22 wrote to John Quincy Adams , Secretary of State at Washington , inquiring about laws covering trade with `` Missouri and Illinois Territories '' .
In 1819 grasshoppers again destroyed the crop at `` the Forks '' ( Fort Douglas ) and in December 1819 , twenty men left Fort Daer for the most northerly American outpost at Prairie Du Chien .
With these completed and ice gone from the St. Peter's River ( present-day Minnesota river ) their 250 bushels of wheat , 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake , across into Lake Traverse , and down the Red .
They reached Fort Douglas in June 1820 .
This epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Selkirk Ab1,040 .
Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were forced to retreat to Fort Daer for food .
Activity by British traders and the presence of a colony on the Red prompted the United State War Department in 1819 to send Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Leavenworth from Detroit to put a post 300 miles northwest of Prairie Du Chien , until then the most advanced United States post .
In September 1822 two companies of infantry arrived at the mouth of the St. Peter's River , the head of navigation on the Mississippi , and began construction of Fort St. Anthony which , upon completion , was renamed in honor of its commander , Colonel Josiah Snelling .
It was from the American outposts that Red River shortages of livestock were to be made good .
Hercules L. Dousman , fur trader and merchant at Prairie Du Chien , contracted to supply Selkirk's people with some 300 head of cattle , and Alexis Bailly and Francois Labothe were hired as drovers .
Bailly , after leaving Fort Snelling in August 1821 , was forced to leave some of the cattle at the Hudson's Bay Company's post on Lake Traverse `` in the Sieux Country '' and reached Fort Garry , as the Selkirk Hudson's Bay Company center was now called , late in the fall .
He set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward the United States .
Observing their distressing condition , Colonel Snelling allowed these half-starved immigrants to settle on the military reservation .
As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota , Dousman of Michilimackinac , Michigan , and Prairie Du Chien was traveling to Red River to open a trade in merchandise .
Early in 1822 he was at Fort Garry offering to bring in pork , flour , liquor and tobacco .
Alexander McDonnell , governor of Red River , and James Bird , a chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company , ordered such `` sundry articles '' to a value of Ab4,500 .
For its part the Hudson's Bay Company was troubled by the approach of American settlement .
As the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 , the company suspected that the Pembina colony -- its own post and Fort Daer -- was on American territory .
Accordingly Selkirk's agents ordered the settlers to move north , and by October , John Halkett had torn down both posts , floating the timber to `` the Forks '' in rafts .
They would attempt to bring supplies from St. Louis or Prairie Du Chien at `` great expense as well as danger '' .
At Fort Garry some of the Swiss also decided to cast their lot with the United States , and in 1823 several families paid guides to take them to Fort Snelling .
After heavy rains and an onslaught of mice , snow fell on October 15 , 1825 , and remained on the ground through a winter so cold that the ice on the Red was five feet thick .
On June 24 more than 400 families started the three-month trip across the plains to the Mississippi .
By fall , 443 survivors of this arduous journey were clustered about Fort Snelling , but most of them were sent on to Galena and St. Louis , with a few going as far as Vevay , Indiana , a notable Swiss center in the United States .
In 1837 , 157 Red River people with more than 200 cattle were living on the reservation at Fort Snelling .
Below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi River .
At the point where they ended , another settlement grew up around a chapel built at the boat landing by Father Lucian Galtier in 1840 .
Its people , including Pierre Bottineau and other American Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry , were joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling when Major Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840 .
The resultant town , platted in 1847 and named for the patron of Father Galtier's mission , St. Paul , was to become an important center of the fur trade and was to take on a new interest for those Selkirkers who remained at Red River .
While population at Fort Garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
Accordingly , though the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the Hudson's Bay Company , some settlers went into trade .
The Company maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they refrain from trading in furs .
Despite this prohibiton , by 1844 some of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs .
In June 1845 , the Governor and Council of Assiniboia imposed a 20 per cent duty on imports via Hudson's Bay which were viewed as aimed at the `` very vitals of the Company's trade and power '' .
To reduce further the flow of goods from England , the Company's local officials asked that its London authorities refrain from forwarding any more trade goods to these men .
With their customary source of supply cut off , the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country .
Others carried pemmican from `` the Forks '' to St. Paul and goods from St. Paul to Red River , as in the summer of 1847 when one trader , Wells , transported twenty barrels of whisky to the British settlement .
This trade was subject to a tariff of 7.5 per cent after February 1835 , but much was smuggled into Assiniboia with the result that the duty was reduced by 1841 to 4 per cent on the initiative of the London committee .
A Confederate observed that the Yankees were : `` thicker than lise on a hen and a dam site ornraier '' .
One wrote : `` ( I am so hungry ) I could eat a rider off his horse & snap at the stirups '' .
A Texan wrote to a male companion at home : `` what has become of Halda and Laura ? ?
William R. Stillwell , an admirable Georgian whose delightful correspondence is preserved in the Georgia Department of Archives and History , liked to tease his wife in his letters .
After he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` ( dear Wife ) if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married .
I don't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as I am so forgitful '' .
A Yank , disturbed by his increasing corpulence , wrote : `` I am growing so fat I am a burden 2 myself '' .
Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : `` now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; ;
if they should bite before I wake , I pray the Lord their jaws to break '' .
Charles Thiot , a splendid Georgia soldier , differed from most of his comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation , well-educated , and nearly fifty years of age .
Near the end of his service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups , name one of them `` Fall-in '' and the other `` Close-up '' , and then shoot them both , `` and that will be the end of Fall-in and Close-up '' .
The soldiers who comprised the rank and file of the Civil War armies were an earthy people .
A Michigan soldier stationed in Georgia wrote in 1864 : :
`` I expect to be tough as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts '' .
Johnny Rebs from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering from the `` the Virginia quickstep '' .
A Georgia soldier gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : `` I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days .
A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : `` I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear and I hope thease few lines find you the same '' .
A Yank writing from Vicksburg , May 28 , 1863 , stated : `` not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced writing .
A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed his mother : `` I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter .
Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta reported : `` the Yankees keep shooting so I am afraid they will knock over my ink , so I will close '' .
Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville .
An Alabama soldier whose feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully of his achievements among the Virginia belles : `` they thout I was a saint .
I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappy's .
But I wold say I recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk '' .
An Ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered himself thus : `` dear Sis .
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf Dyer and let that orney thefin , drunkard , damed card playing sun of a bich com to sea you , the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode helion , he is too orney for hel .
A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his first skirmish in Virginia : `` dear Pa .
A Mississippi soldier wrote : `` our General Reub Davis is a vain , stuck-up , illiterate ass '' .
An Alabamian wrote : `` Col. Henry is ( an ignoramus ) fit for nothing higher than the cultivation of corn '' .
On December 9 , 1862 , Sergeant Edwin H. Fay , an unusual Louisianan who held A.B. and M.A. degrees from Harvard University and who before the war was headmaster of a private school for boys in Louisiana , wrote his wife : `` I saw Pemberton and he is the most insignificant puke I ever saw .
But he is a West Point graduate and therefore must be born to command '' .
A Massachusetts soldier , who seems to have been a Civil War version of Bill Mauldin , wrote : `` the officers consider themselves as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks .
Private George Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote : `` I am well convinced in my own mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended long ago '' .
Another Yankee became so disgusted as to state : `` I wish to God one half of our officers were knocked in the head by slinging them against ( the other half ) '' .
Shortly after the beginning of Sherman's Georgia campaign , an ailing Yank wrote his homefolk : `` the surgeon insisted on sending me to the hospital for treatment .
I insisted on takeing the field and prevailed -- thinking that I had better die by rebel bullets than ( by ) Union quackery '' .
The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut of feeling , from friendliness to extreme hatred .
The Rebs were , to a Massachusetts corporal , `` fighting madmen or not men at all but whiskey & gunpowder put into a human frame '' .
A Pennsylvania soldier wrote that `` they were the hardest looking set of men that ever I saw .
'' Private Jenkins Lloyd Jones of the Wisconsin Light Artillery wrote in his diary : `` I strolled among the Alabamans on the right , found some of the greenest specimens of humanity I think in the universe , their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise with as imperfect a dialect .
In a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , Thomas Taylor , a private in the 6th Alabama Volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : `` you know that my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is Booty .
The popularity of folklore in America stands in direct proportion to the popularity of nationalism in America .
And the emphasis on nationalism in America is in proportion to the growth of American influence across the world .
One can apply these facts to Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries as she spread her dominion over palm and pine , and they can be applied again to the United States in more recent years .
The popularity of local color literature before the Spanish-American War , the steady currency of the Lincoln myth , the increased emphasis on the frontier West in our mass media are cases in point .
Nor is it an accident that baseball , growing into the national game in the last 75 years , has become a microcosm of American life , that learned societies such as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical Association were founded in the 1880s , or that courses in American literature , American civilization , American anything have swept our school and college curricula .
Of course , nationalism has really outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours , and its continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the twentieth-century United States .
It is an understandable paradox that most American history and most American literature is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic point of view at the very time America is spreading her dominion over palm and pine .
After all , the average American as he lies and waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain hope of personal contact with the front is unconcerned that his or her plight is the result of a complex of personal , economic and governmental actions far beyond the normal citizen's comprehension and control .
Parson Weems's George Washington became the symbol of honesty and the father image of the uniting States .
Abraham Lincoln emerged as an incarnation of the national Constitution .
Robert E. Lee represented the dignity needed by a rebelling confederacy .
And their roles are paralleled by those of Patrick Henry , Nathan Hale , Andrew Jackson , Davy Crockett , Theodore Roosevelt and many , many more .
Enthusiastically , Americans have swept subliterary and bogus materials like Paul Bunyan tales , Abe Lincoln anecdotes and labor union songs up as true products of our American oral tradition .
And so well is such ignorance preserved by the amateur and the money-maker that even at the college level most of the hundred-odd folklore courses given in the United States survive on sentiment and nationalism alone .
Robert Frost , for instance , writes about rural life in New England , but he does not include any significant amount of folklore in his poems .
Stephen Vincent Benet's John Brown's Body comes immediately to mind in this connection , as does John Steinbeck's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg's The People , Yes .
Nevertheless , with a reading public that longs for the `` good old days '' and with an awareness of our expanding international interests , it is easy for the Benets to obtain a magnified position in literature by use of all sorts of Americana , real or fake , and it is easy for the Steinbecks and Sandburgs to support their messages of reform by reading messages of reform into the minds of the folk .
As part of the same arrangement , Torrio had , in the spirit of peace and good will , and in exchange for armed support in the April election campaign , bestowed upon O'Banion a third share in the Hawthorne Smoke Shop proceeds and a cut in the Cicero beer trade .
He was also at this time , although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets as Torrio and Capone , the most powerful and most dangerous mob leader in the Chicago underworld , the roughneck king .
O'Banion was born in poverty , the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer , in the North Side's Little Hell , close by the Sicilian quarter and Death Corner .
He had been a choir boy at the Holy Name Cathedral and also served as an acolyte to Father O'Brien .
Because of this he was known as Gimpy ( but , as with Capone and his nickname of Scarface , never in his presence ) .
In his teens O'Banion was enrolled in the vicious Market Street gang and he became a singing waiter in McGovern's Cafe , a notoriously low and rowdy dive in North Clark Street , where befuddled customers were methodically looted of their money by the singing waiters before being thrown out .
He then got a job with the Chicago Herald-Examiner as a circulation slugger , a rough fighter employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon by rival vendors .
He was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
O'Banion's first conflict with the police came in 1909 , at seventeen , when he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary ; ;
On one of his 1921 ventures he was actually come upon by a Detective Sergeant John J. Ryan down on his knees with a tool embedded in a labour office safe in the Postal Telegraph Building ; ;
As promptly as Torrio , O'Banion jumped into bootlegging .
He conducted it with less diplomacy and more spontaneous violence than the Sicilians , but he had his huge North Side portion to exploit and he made a great deal of money .
Until 1924 O'Banion pistoleers and knuckle-duster bullyboys had kept his North Side domain solidly Democratic .
There was a question-and-answer gag that went around at that time : Q. `` Who'll carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards '' ? ?
But as November 1924 drew close the Democratic hierarchy was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion was being wooed by the opposition , and was meeting and conferring with important Republicans .
To forestall any change of allegiance , the Democrats hastily organised a testimonial banquet for O'Banion , as public reward for his past services and as a reminder of where his loyalties lay .
The reception was held in a private dining room of the Webster Hotel on Lincoln Park West .
It included the top O'Banion men and Chief of Detectives Michael Hughes .
When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers .
Hughes said that he had understood the party was to be in honour of Jerry O'Connor , the proprieter of a Loop gambling house .
`` But when I arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective bureau basement half a dozen times , I knew I had been framed , and withdrew almost at once '' .
This dinner was the start of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians , which , prior to 1924 , says Pasley , `` had been maintained with more or less stealth '' , but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious gatherings , denounced by a clergyman as `` Belshazzar feasts '' , at which `` politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters , openly , in the big downtown hotels '' .
Pasley continued : `` They became an institution of the Chicago scene and marked the way to the moral and financial collapse of the municipal and county governments in 1928-29 '' .
On Election Day -- November 4 -- he energetically marshalled his force of bludgeon men , bribers , and experts in forging repeat votes .
This further demonstration of O'Banion's ballooning power did not please Torrio and Capone .
They were disturbed by his idiotic bravado -- as , when his bodyguard , Yankee Schwartz , complained that he had been snubbed by Dave Miller , a prize-fight referee , chieftain of a Jewish gang and one of four brothers of tough reputation , who were Hirschey , a gambler-politician in loose beer-running league with Torrio and O'Banion , Frank , a policeman , and Max , the youngest .
To settle this slight , O'Banion went down to the La Salle Theatre in the Loop , where , he had learned , Dave Miller was attending the opening of a musical comedy .
At the end of the performance , Dave and Max came out into the brilliantly lit foyer among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed first nighters .
That sort of braggadocio , for that sort of reason , in the view of Torrio and Capone , was a nonsense .
A further example of the incompatible difference in personalities was when two policemen held up a Torrio beer convoy on a West Side street and demanded $300 to let it through .
But in the meantime the beer-runner , unhappy with this solution , telephoned Torrio and returned to O'Banion with the message : `` Say , Dionie , I just been talking to Johnny , and he said to let them cops have the three hundred .
But Torrio and Capone had graver cause to hate and distrust the Irishman .
For three years , since the liquor territorial conference , Torrio had , with his elastic patience , and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business , tolerated O'Banion's impudent double-crossing .
When , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero , the profits from that district had been $20,000 a month .
These booze customers had until then been buying their supplies from the Sheldon , Saltis-McErlane , and Druggan-Lake gangs , and now they were competing for trade with the Torrio-Capone saloons ; ;
The revenue from O'Banion's Cicero territory went up still higher , until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago's South and West Sides .
At last , even the controlled Torrio was unable to hold still , and he tentatively suggested that O'Banion should take a percentage in the Stickney brothels in return for one from his Cicero beer concession .
Still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the O'Banion gang's seizure from a West Side marshalling yard of a freight-car load of Canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest coups of the Prohibition era -- the Sibley warehouse robbery , which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation .
it raced across the Pacific at 300 miles an hour , devastated the coasts of Java and Sumatra with waves 100 to 130 feet high , and pounded the shore as far away as San Francisco .
Whether or not Plato's tale of the lost continent of Atlantis is true , skeptics concede that the myth may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times .
Indeed , a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the Arabian Sea in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists in the Biblical story of the Flood .
One of the most damaging tsunami on record followed the famous Lisbon earthquake of November 1 , 1755 ; ;
Tsunami are rare , however , in the Atlantic Ocean ; ;
The Hawaiian Islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years .
In 1707 an earthquake in Japan generated waves so huge that they piled into the Inland Sea ; ;
A tsunami in the Hawaiian Islands in 1869 washed away an entire town ( Ponoluu ) , leaving only two forlorn trees standing where the community had been .
An ordinary sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to crest -- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the Pacific .
After an earthquake in Japan in 1793 people on the coast at Tugaru were so terrified by the extraordinary ebbing of the sea that they scurried to higher ground .
Among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at Hilo was Francis P. Shepard of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography , one of the world's foremost marine geologists .
In Hilo Bay they were from 21 to 26 feet high .
The highest waves , 55 feet , occurred at Pololu Valley .
The waves of a 1923 tsunami in Sagami Bay brought to the surface and battered to death huge numbers of fishes that normally live at a depth of 3,000 feet .
The tsunami-warning system developed since the 1946 disaster in Hawaii relies mainly on a simple and ingenious instrument devised by Commander C. K. Green of the Coast and Geodetic Survey staff .
Such equipment has been installed at Hilo , Midway , Attu and Dutch Harbor .
This center also receives prompt reports on earthquakes from four Coast Survey stations in the Pacific which are equipped with seismographs .
By means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific .
On November 4 , 1952 , an earthquake occurred under the sea off the Kamchatka Peninsula .
At 17:07 that afternoon ( Greenwich time ) the shock was recorded by the seismograph alarm in Honolulu .
Within about an hour with the help of reports from seismic stations in Alaska , Arizona and California , the quake's epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees East longitude .
While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came in from various points in the Pacific ( Midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water ) , the Hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time .
They hurled a cement barge against a freighter in Honolulu Harbor , knocked down telephone lines , marooned automobiles , flooded lawns , killed six cows .
But not a single human life was lost , and property damage in the Hawaiian Islands did not exceed $800,000 .
The following discussion of this subject has been adapted from the book Causes Of Catastrophe by L. Don Leet .
At twelve minutes after five on the morning of Wednesday , April 18 , 1906 , San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake .
In Ireland's County Limerick , near the River Shannon , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen , which means `` Garden of Owen '' .
Bursting from the lips of a charging cavalry trooper was the last sound heard on this earth by untold numbers of Cheyennes , Sioux and Apaches , Mexican banditos under Pancho Villa , Japanese in the South Pacific , and Chinese and North Korean Communists in Korea .
Garryowen is the battle cry of the 7th U.S. Cavalry Regiment , `` The Fighting Seventh '' .
But don't tell that to a veteran of the Fighting Seventh , especially in a saloon on Saturday night .
Of all the thousands of men who have served in the 7th Cav , perhaps no one knows its spirit better than Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C. Chandler .
The truth is , however , that when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment the only steed he had ever ridden was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded was a pencil .
Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make the Army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it .
The next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan .
But his first few days with Troop H were full of surprises , beginning with First Sergeant Robert Early .
Instead Sergeant Early was quiet , sharp and confident .
But for all his erudite confidence , Sergeant Early was right out of the Garryowen mold .
He was filled with the spirit of the Fighting Seventh .
That saved Mel Chandler .
Sergeant Early let the new CO know just how lucky he was to be in the best troop in the best regiment in the United States Army .
For example , it was a battalion of the 7th Cavalry under Colonel George Armstrong Custer that had been wiped out at the Battle of The Little Big Horn .
It didn't take Captain Chandler long to realize that he had to carry a heavy load of tradition on his shoulders as commander of Troop Aj .
Maneuvers over , the 7th returned to garrison duty in Tokyo , Captain Chandler still with them .
It was the 7th Cavalry whose troopers were charged with guarding the Imperial Palace of the Emperor .
But still Mel Chandler was not completely convinced that men would really die for a four-syllable word , `` Garryowen '' .
It happened at the St. Patrick's Day party , a big affair for a regiment which had gone into battle for over three-quarters of a century to the strains of an Irish march .
The faces belonged to Lieutenant Marvin Goulding , his wife and their two children .
And when the singing began , it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish songs the best .
Though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing tearfully about the ould sod , no one really thought it was strange .
For Marvin Goulding , like Giovanni Martini , the bugler boy who carried Custer's last message , or Margarito Lopez , the one-man Army on Leyte , was a Garryowen , through and through .
And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen .
He set out to keep Troop H the best troop in the best regiment .
Even the mess sergeant , Bill Brown , a dapper , cocky transfer from an airborne division , went out on the range .
The troop received a new leader , Lieutenant Robert M. Carroll , fresh out of ROTC and bucking for Regular Army status .
So Mel Chandler set out to sell him on the spirit of Garryowen , just as he himself had been sold a short time before .
When the Korean war began , on June 25 , 1950 , the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead of Leyte during World War 2 , , the 7th Cavalry was not in the best fighting condition .
Its entire complement of non-commissioned officers on the platoon level had departed as cadre for another unit , and its vehicles were still those used in the drive across Luzon in World War 2 .
Just a month after the Korean War broke out , the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines , ready for combat .
From then on the Fighting Seventh was in the thick of the bitterest fighting in Korea .
One night on the Naktong River , Mel Chandler called on that fabled esprit de corps .
The regiment was dug in on the east side of the river and the North Koreans were steadily building up a concentration of crack troops on the other side .
Then it came , against Troop Aj .
The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full force of 1000 men , armed with Russian machine guns , attacked the position held by Chandler's men .
They were followed by crack North Korean troops , who mounted one charge after another .
One of the more seriously wounded was Lieutenant Carroll , the young officer bucking for the Regular Army .
Then Mel Chandler started up the hill .
It was Bob Carroll , who had suddenly found himself imbued with the spirit of Garryowen .
He had formed his own task force of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a Fighting Seventh charge .
They found it at the junction between Troops H and G , and prepared to counterattack .
But the bullets whacked home before he finished his battle cry and Marvin Goulding fell dead .
That finished the job that Captain Chandler and Lieutenant Carroll had begun .
The North Koreans threw away their guns and fled across the rice paddies .
Though Bob Carroll seemed to have had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade , he lived .
Today he is a major -- in the Regular Army .
So filled was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was over , he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment .
After years of digging , nights and weekends , he put together the big , profusely illustrated book , Of Garryowen And Glory , which is probably the most complete history of any military unit .
The battle of the Naktong River is just one example of how the battle cry and the spirit of The Fighting Seventh have paid off .
Take the case of Major Marcus A. Reno , who survived the Battle of The Little Big Horn in 1876 .
From the enlisted men he pistol-whipped to the subordinate officer whose wife he tried to rape , a lot of men had plenty of reason heartily to dislike Marcus Reno .
But when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice made against him , the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left to be tortured by the Sioux , refused to say a harsh word against him .
He was a member of The Fighting Seventh .
Although it was at the Battle of The Little Horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in American history , that the 7th Cavalry first made its mark in history , the regiment was ten years old by then .
Brevet Major General George Armstrong Custer was the regiment's first permanent commander and , like such generals as George S. Patton and Terry De La Mesa Allen in their rise to military prominence , Custer was a believer in blood and guts warfare .
During the Civil War , Custer , who achieved a brilliant record , was made brigadier general at the age of 23 .
If they were , Walter Lippmann would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky , and Herb Lock would have nothing to draw cartoons about .
I do mean , however , that I take them for granted , and that everything I shall be saying would appear quite idiotic against any contrary assumptions .
These conditions are unobtainable -- are not even approachable in the qualified sense I have indicated -- without the prior defeat of world Communism .
It follows that victory over Communism is the dominant , proximate goal of American policy .
but if justice for Bantus entails driving the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West , then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards yet a while longer .
And I suggest further that the main cause of the trouble we are in has been the failure of American policy-makers , ever since we assumed free world leadership in 1945 , to deal with this problem realistically and seriously .
You may have misgivings about certain aspects of our military establishment -- I certainly do -- but you know any comparison of over-all American strength with over-all Soviet strength finds the United States not only superior , but so superior both in present weapons and in the development of new ones that our advantage promises to be a permanent feature of U.S.-Soviet relations for the foreseeable future .
I have often searched for a graphic way of impressing our superiority on those Americans who have doubts , and I think Mr. Jameson Campaigne has done it well in his new book American Might And Soviet Myth .
Suppose , he says , that the tables were turned , and we were in the Soviets' position : `` There would be more than 2,000 modern Soviet fighters , all better than ours , stationed at 250 bases in Mexico and the Caribbean .
The evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union , and is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead .
To the extent , then , that declining U.S. prestige means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on an ultimate American defeat , and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet intimidation , there is reason for concern .
Still , these guesses about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the actual power relationship between the Soviet Union and ourselves .
Here I do not speak of military power where our advantage is obvious and overwhelming but of political power -- of influence , if you will -- about which the relevant questions are : Is Soviet influence throughout the world greater or less than it was ten years ago ? ?
In answering these questions , we need to ask not merely whether Communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy before , and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded : the success of Communism's war against the West does not depend on such spectacular and definitive conquests .
Fearful of inviting a military showdown with the West which they could not win , the Communists seek to undermine Western power where the nuclear might of the West is irrelevant -- in backwoods guerrilla skirmishes , in mob uprisings in the streets , in parliaments , in clandestine meetings of undercover conspirators , at the United Nations , on the propaganda front , at diplomatic conferences -- preferably at the highest level .
The Soviets understand , moreover , that the first step in turning a country toward Communism is to turn it against the West .
The Kremlin's goal is the isolation and capture , not of Ghana , but of the United States -- and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade under a `` neutralist '' mask , yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries of the Soviet Foreign Office .
Six years ago French Indochina , though in troubie , was in the Western camp .
Today Northern Vietnam is overtly Communist ; ;
Indonesia , in the early days of the Republic , leaned toward the West .
Today Sukarno's government is heavily besieged by avowed Communists , and for all of its `` neutralist '' pretensions , it is a firm ally of Soviet policy .
In the Middle East , Iraq , Syria and Egypt were , a short while ago , in the Western camp .
Today the Nasser and Kassem governments are adamantly hostile to the West , are dependent for their military power on Soviet equipment and personnel ; ;
A short time ago all Africa was a Western preserve .
Never mind whether the Kikiyus and the Bantus enjoyed Wilsonian self-determination : the point is that in the struggle for the world that vast land mass was under the domination and influence of the West .
Today , Africa is swerving violently away from the West and plunging , it would seem , into the Soviet orbit .
Latin America was once an area as `` safe '' for the West as Nebraska was for Nixon .
One Latin American country , Cuba , has become a Soviet bridgehead ninety miles off our coast .
In some countries the trend has gone further than others : Mexico , Panama , and Venezuela are displaying open sympathy for Castroism , and there is no country -- save the Dominican Republic whose funeral services we recently arranged -- where Castroism and Anti-Americanism does not prevent the government from unqualifiedly espousing the American cause .
The strains of neutralism are running strong , notably in England , and even in Germany .
We have had opportunities -- clear invitations to plant our influence on the other side of the Iron Curtain .
There was the Hungarian Revolution which we praised and mourned , but did nothing about .
There was the Polish Revolution which we misunderstood and then helped guide along a course favorable to Soviet interests .
Only in one instance have we moved purposively and effectively to dislodge existing Communist power : in Guatemala .
The middle-aged man said over and over , `` Why did I come here , why did I come here '' .
This was my second day in Vientiane , the administrative capital of Laos , and my thoughts were none too brave .
Had the Communist-led Pathet Lao finally come this far ? ?
And no wonder , for Vientiane , the old City of Sandalwood , had become the City of Bullet Holes .
Mortars had demolished the defense ministry and set fire to the American Embassy next door .
This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane , fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments had ruled here in three days ( December 9-11 , 1960 ) .
And now , in March , all Laos suffered a state of siege .
The Pathet Lao forces held two northern provinces and openly took the offensive in three more .
`` And it's all the more tragic because it's so little deserved '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization .
We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with the U.N. flag .
`` Precisely '' , said Mr. Frans .
The slim pirogues in harmony with the majestically meandering Mekong River .
To many a Frenchman -- they came 95 years ago , colonized , and stayed until Laos became independent in 1953 -- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti .
The Pathet Lao , stiffened by Communist Veterans from neighboring North Viet Nam , were supplied by Soviet aircraft .
The Royal Lao Army , on the other hand , was paid and equipped with American funds .
To find out , we traveled throughout that part of Laos still nominally controlled , in the daytime at least , by the Royal Lao Army : from Attopeu , the City of Buffalo Dung in the southeast , to Muong Sing , the City of Lions in the northwest , close to Communist China ( map , page 250 ) .
`` We '' were Bill Garrett of the National Geographic Illustrations Staff , whose three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any fighting man we met ; ;
Boun My -- the name means one who has a boun , a celebration , and is therefore lucky -- was born in Savannakhet , the Border of Paradise .
He had attended three universities in the United States .
But he had never seen the mountainous half of his native land north of Vientiane , including the royal capital , Luang Prabang .
We were told that to the Pathet Lao , a kidnaped American was worth at least $750 , a fortune in Laos .
Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him barefoot from village to village , as evidence of evil American intervention .
Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French , we were getting nowhere .
We had nearly decided that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true , when we were invited to take a trip with the Prime Minister .
And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing along in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas .
In Keng Kok , the City of Silkworms , the Prime Minister bought fried chickens and fried cicadas , and two notebooks for me .
But our two Jeep mates -- Keo Viphakone from Luang Prabang and John Cool from Beaver , Pennsylvania -- were beaming under their coatings of dust .
Mr. Keo , once a diplomat in Paris and Washington , was Commissioner of Rural Affairs .
John , an engineer and anthropologist with a doctorate from the London School of Economics , headed the rural development division of USOM , the United States Operations Mission administering U.S. aid .
Ask Mr. Keo '' .
The Prime Minister paid his respects to the Buddhist monks , strode rapidly among the houses , joked with the local soldiery , and made a speech .
The soldiers are fighting and the Americans are helping , he said , but in the fight against the Pathet Lao the key factor is the villager himself .
Crossing the 4,000-foot width of the Mekong at Champassak , on a raft with an outboard motor , we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean breeze .
Briefly we rolled over a paved road up to Pak Song , on the cool Bolovens Plateau .
The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood , supported by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines , and fed rice to two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song .
In the village of Soukhouma , which means `` Peaceful '' , we had a baci .
It takes place in the household , a rite of well-wishing for myriad occasions -- for the traveler , a wedding , a newborn child , the sick , the New Year , for any good purpose .
As we stepped out into the sunlight , a man came up to John Cool and silently showed him his hand .
When I pressed for a purely religious definition , I encountered the familiar blend of liberal piety , interfaith good will , and a small residue of ethnic loyalty .
As I see it , there's no real difference between being Jewish , Catholic , or Protestant '' .
Another teen-ager remarked : `` Most Jews don't believe in God , but they believe in people -- in helping people '' .
Still another boy asserted : `` To be a good Jew is to do no wrong ; ;
When asked how this was different from being a good Protestant , the boy answered , `` It's the same thing '' .
This accords with the study by Maier and Spinrad .
They discovered that , although 42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings of their religion , only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this conviction .
Nevertheless , most of the teen-agers I interviewed believed in maintaining their Jewish identity and even envisioned joining a synagogue or temple .
However , they were hostile to Jewish Orthodoxy , professing to believe in Judaism `` but in a moderate way '' .
One boy said querulously about Orthodox Jews : `` It's the twentieth century , and they don't have to wear beards '' .
A fourteen-year-old girl from the Middle West observed wryly that , in her community , religion inconveniently interfered with religious activities -- at least with the peripheral activities that many middle class Jews now regard as religious .
It appears that an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups because she would not travel on Saturday and , in addition , required kosher food .
It is significant , too , that the older teen-agers I interviewed believed , unlike the younger ones , that Jewish students tend to do better academically than their gentile counterparts .
One of the reasons for the high percentage of Jewish teen-agers in college is that a great many urban Jews are enabled to attend local colleges at modest cost .
This is particularly true in large centers of Jewish population like New York , Chicago , and Philadelphia .
Perhaps the Jewish students at Brooklyn College -- constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session -- can serve as a paradigm of the urban , lower-middle class Jewish student .
The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn College outnumber the boys and do somewhat better academically .
This is particularly acute for those who attended Midwood High School directly across the street from Brooklyn College .
Of course , I would like to go to an out-of-town school where there are all kinds of people , but I would want lots of Jewish kids there '' .
For most Brooklyn College students , college is at once a perpetuation of their ethnic attachments and a breaking away from the cage of neighborhood and family .
Brooklyn College is unequivocally Jewish in tone , and efforts to detribalize the college by bringing in unimpeachably midwestern types on the faculty have been unavailing .
`` As long as I'm home , I'll never grow up '' , a nineteen-year-old boy observed sadly .
Parents will drive on Friday night to pick up their daughters after a sorority or House Plan meeting .
A freshman girl's father not too long ago called a dean at Brooklyn College and demanded the `` low-down '' on a boy who was going out with his daughter .
Under pressure from parents , the majority of Brooklyn College girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with marriage plans -- limited graduate study requirement and convenient working hours .
Then , with the new affluence , there is actually a sallying forth into the wide , wide world beyond the precincts of New York .
It is significant that the Catskills , which used to be the summer playground for older teen-agers , a kind of summer suburb of New York , no longer attracts them in great numbers -- except for those who work there as waiters , bus boys , or counselors in the day camps .
But it should be pointed out that some of the new watering places -- Fire Island , Nantucket , Westhampton , Long Island , for example -- tend to be homogeneously Jewish .
Although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad program , a good number of students spend summers in Europe .
In general , however , the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that of the student at Harvard or Smith .
And acculturation into the world at large is likely to occur for the Brooklyn College student after college rather than during the four school years .
Brooklyn College is Marjorie Morningstar territory , as much as the Bronx or Central Park West .
And the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities , sororities , and houses ( in the House Plan Association ) that have good news to impart .
`` Witt House happily announces the engagement of Fran Horowitz to Erwin Schwartz of Fife House '' .
The Brooklyn College student shows some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models .
The Ivy League enjoys no easy dominion here , and the boys are as likely to dress in rather foppish Continental fashion , or even in nondescript working class manner , as they are in the restrained , button-down Ivy way .
The Fort Lauderdale encampment for drinking is foreign to most Brooklyn College boys .
In 1872 there were known to be twenty-two in Norton County , and one had been in the family for 200 years .
This is important because , despite all the efforts of the French government , an appreciable segment of France's export trade in wines is still tainted with a misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty , and there are many too many negociants who would rather turn a sou than amass a creditable reputation overseas .
These are the wines the French themselves use for everyday drinking , for even in France virtually no one drinks the Grands Crus on a meal-to-meal basis .
The Grands Crus are expensive , and even doting palates tire of them .
And certainly , in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine drinker , the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready for the Grands Crus as a steady diet without frequent recourse to crus of less renown .
Most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and some other Latin countries : the customer is to be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise , with the burden of proof on the customer himself .
But the fact remains that in most restaurants , including some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon , the bottle is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered , and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place while the chef is preparing the meal .
It should not be forgotten that wines mature fastest in half-bottles , less fast in full bottles , slowly in Magnums -- and slower yet in Tregnums , double Magnums , Jeroboams , Methuselahs , and Imperiales , respectively .
Thus , Sauternes or Barsacs should be very cold ; ;
To quote Professor Saintsbury : `` The last glass of claret or Burgundy is as good as the first ; ;
Giffen replied punctually and enthusiastically : `` Rest assured that your accompanying Letter of Instructions shall be in the Letter and Spirit strictly complied with and most particularly in regard to that part of them relative to the completion of your noble and humane views '' .
The slaves appeared to be in good health and at work under John Palfrey's overseer .
William , who lived in neighboring St. Mary's parish , had taken charge and decided that it would be best for all if the plantation were operated for another year .
Early in January , 1844 he had a conference with Henry and William in New Orleans , and upon learning of Gorham's intention , Henry remonstrated calmly but firmly with his brother .
Gorham refused to accept money for slave property , but did he realize how much expense and trouble the transportation of his Negroes to the North involved ? ?
The suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was not realistic , since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves .
Henry hid his annoyance , although both he and William were furious with their Yankee brother .
William , who did not write to Gorham , told Giffen that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year , he would sue `` amicably '' to protect his interests .
If William wished to continue operations for a year , why not simply leave the Negroes undisturbed and pay them `` as high wages to remain there as are ever paid the labor of persons of their sex & age .
William was adamant on one point : under no circumstances would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his and Henry's slaves if they were told of their coming freedom .
Knowing the antipathy that existed in Louisiana against increasing the number of free Negroes , Giffen suggested that Palfrey bring them to Boston at once , and then send them on to Liberia .
In March there was a division of the slaves , and Giffen carried out his instructions as nearly as possible .
I have also taken the old servants of your father as a matter of Conscience & Justice '' .
Giffen extracted one concession from William : the house servants could be free at any time Gorham thought expedient .
Despite Giffen's warning , Palfrey still had plans for freeing his slaves in Louisiana .
On March 11 the Louisiana legislature voted unanimously to table the petition .
News of the legislative veto appeared in the New Orleans papers , and Henry and William became incensed by the fact that they had not been told of the attempt in advance .
Henry stormed into Giffen's office waving a copy of the New Orleans Courier , shouting that the emancipation scheme had become a public affair , and that it would reach the `` Ears of the People on the Plantation , and make them restless & unhappy '' .
When Giffen decided to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey , Gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him .
In view of these difficulties , Palfrey decided to go to Louisiana .
His duties as Massachusetts Secretary of State obliged him to wait until the adjournment of the legislature in mid-April .
Palfrey told his wife of his intentions for the first time , and left for New Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
In New York , Lydia Maria Child welcomed him enthusiastically : `` I have lately heard of you from the Legislature of Louisiana , and felt joy at your public recognition of the brotherhood of man '' .
Mrs. Child , who had once apologized for sending editor Palfrey a book on slavery , now confided that she had helped one of Henry Palfrey's slaves escape to Canada some years before , but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana .
She agreed to take charge of five or six of the Negroes should Palfrey decide to send them north immediately .
At Lexington , Kentucky , Palfrey consulted with Cassius M. Clay on the same subject , but with no apparent result .
Despite his apprehensions about his personal safety , Palfrey's reception in New Orleans was more than cordial .
Instead of the expected `` annoyances '' due to the nature of his mission , he received many calling cards and invitations from `` gentlemen of mark , on whom I had no sort of claim , & have had many more invitations than I could accept '' .
He later told abolitionist Edmund Quincy of the `` marked attention and civility '' with which the New Orleans gentlemen and the upriver planters greeted him .
The memory of this southern hospitality did not survive the trials of coming antislavery years and Civil War .
From Cambridge , Palfrey maintained a close interest in the welfare of his slaves .
When a sailing date of March , 1845 was finally established , Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters in New Orleans and aboard ship .
The plantation was sold in January , 1845 , and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people two months' wages .
On March 21 , 1845 the bark Bashaw weighed anchor at New Orleans , while on the levee Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father's former chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled regret and jubilation .
Not all of Palfrey's slaves were aboard the Bashaw .
Giffen filed a petition for permission to emancipate four slaves ( all more than fifty years old ) with the St. Martin's Parish Police Jury .
After an initial rejection , which he attributed to a `` general Excitement against Abolition and Emancipation '' , Giffen bribed the right individuals on the jury , and got the permission without further delay .
When the Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were , of course , no longer slaves .
Nevertheless , Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King's Chapel to formalize the emancipation .
Palfrey tried fruitlessly to place a Negro boy in the Hopedale Community , but he had better luck in his other attempts .
Mrs. Child , true to her word , helped place Anna and her four children with a Quaker family named Hathaway near Canandaigua , New York .
This group had been Palfrey's greatest worry since Anna was in bad health , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a group more varied in background and interest .
Secretary of State Dean Rusk , a former Rhodes Scholar and Mills College dean , has headed the Rockefeller Foundation and in that role expended large sums for international cultural exchange .
One of his initial acts in office was to appoint Philip Coombs of the Ford Foundation as the first Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs .
( `` In the late forties and fifties '' , Coombs has declared in defining his role , `` two strong new arms were added to reinforce United States foreign policy economic assistance and military assistance .
Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital with a collection of paintings that include Renoir , Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Toulouse-Lautrec , Degas , Matisse , Picasso , and Walt Kuhn .
The Director of the Peace Corps , R. Sargent Shriver , Jr. , a Kennedy brother-in-law , collects heavily among the moderns , including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers .
Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon owns a prize Monet , Femmes dans un Jardin .
Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara , former President of the Ford Motor Company , comes from a generation different from that of Eisenhower's own first Secretary of Defense , Charles Wilson , who had been head of General Motors .
An inveterate reader of books , he chose while working in Detroit to live in the University community of Ann Arbor , almost forty miles away .
He selected as Comptroller of Defense , not a veteran accountant , but a former Rhodes Scholar , Charles Hitch , who is author of a study on The Economics Of Defense In The Nuclear Age .
One of the President's special assistants , the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy , was co-author with Henry L. Stimson of the latter's classic memoir , On Active Service .
Another , Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , has won a Pulitzer Prize in history ; ;
The Press Secretary , Pierre Salinger , was a child prodigy as a pianist .
( `` It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who neither know nor understand music '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art .
) Mrs. Arthur Goldberg , wife of the Secretary of Labor , paints professionally and helps sponsor the Associated Artists' Gallery in the District of Columbia .
) Mrs. Henry Labouisse , wife of the new director of the foreign aid program , is the writer and lecturer Eve Curie .
At last count , sixteen former Rhodes Scholars ( see box on page 13 ) had been appointed to the Administration , second in number only to its Harvard graduates .
Besides Schlesinger , the Justice Department's Information Director , Edwin Guthman , has won a Pulitzer Prize ( for national reporting ) .
Postmaster General J. Edward Day , who must deal with matters of postal censorship , is himself author of a novel , Bartholf Street , albeit one he was obliged to publish at his own expense .
William Walton , a writer-turned-painter , has been a long-time friend of the President .
They arrived in Washington about the same time during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; ;
Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
During last year's campaign , Kennedy asked Walton , an utter novice in organization politics , to assist him .
Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted to be liaison officer to critically important New York City .
Walton , who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin's paratroopers during the invasion of France , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
He provoked outraged editorials when , after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House with Mrs. Kennedy , he remarked to reporters , `` We just cased the joint to see what was there '' .
Already the President and the First Lady have deputized him to advise on matters ranging from the furnishing of the White House to the renovation of Lafayette Square .
A more official representative is the Secretary of the Interior .
Udall , who comes from one of the Mormon first-families of Arizona , is a bluff , plain-spoken man with a lust for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight .
His private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals such as C. P. Snow , Arnold Toynbee , and Aaron Copland .
After promoting Frost's appearance at the Inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet members , members of Congress , and other Washington notables gathered in the State Department auditorium .
The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar ones from time to time , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
One tempest was stirred up last March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue of William Jennings Bryan , sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum , would be sent `` on indefinite loan '' to Salem , Illinois , Bryan's birthplace .
They dug up a speech he had made two years earlier as a Congressman , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which `` dot the Washington landscape as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans '' .
In the case of the Borglum statue an Interior aide was obliged to announce that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Secretary had no desire to `` hustle '' it out of Washington .
The last Congress adopted seven bills for memorials , including one to Taras Shevchenko , the Ukrainian poet laureate ; ;
Active warfare is raging between the forces pressing for a monument to the first Roosevelt on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac , and TR.'s own living children , who wish to preserve the island as a wildlife sanctuary .
The hotly debated plan for the capital's Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches ( and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , `` Instant Stonehenge '' ) , is another of Udall's headaches , since as supervisor of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility for building it .
`` Washington '' , President Kennedy has been heard to remark ironically , `` is a city of southern efficiency and northern charm '' .
There have been indications that he hopes to redress that situation , commencing with the White House .
One of Mrs. Kennedy's initial concerns as First Lady was the sad state of the furnishings in a building which is supposed to be a national shrine .
Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by President Thomas Jefferson , the White House has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic .
Not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk , hewed from the timbers of the British ship H.M.S. Resolute and presented to President Hayes by Queen Victoria .
Later , browsing in an old issue of the Gazette Des Beaux-Arts , she found a description of a handsome gilt pier-table purchased in 1817 by President James Monroe .
With its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant -- it will now occupy its rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White House .
But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century furniture ( which Mrs. Kennedy feels is the proper period for the White House ) must be pursued in places other than government storage rooms .
The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee for the White House , to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them .
Her effort to put the home of living Presidents on the same basis as Mount Vernon and Monticello recognizes no party lines .
By rough estimate her Committee , headed by Henry Francis Du Pont , contains three times as many Republicans as Democrats .
The press releases emanating from the White House give a clue to the activity within .
A valuable pencil-and-sepia allegorical drawing of Benjamin Franklin by Jean-Honore Fragonard has been donated by the art dealer Georges Wildenstein and now hangs in the Blue Room .
The American Institute of Interior Designers is redecorating the White House library .
Secretary and Mrs. Dillon have contributed enough pieces of Empire furniture , including Dolley Madison's own sofa , to furnish a room in that style .
And part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs. Margaret Thompson Biddle , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the State dining room .
One of the vexatious problems to first confront President Kennedy was the property lying just across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House .
Congress had already appropriated money , and plans were well along to tear down the buildings flanking Lafayette Square and replace them with what one critic calls the `` marble monumentality '' of government office buildings .
While a Senator , Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the Belasco Theater , as well as the Dolley Madison and the Benjamin Taylor houses , all scheduled for razing .
Only a few days after moving into the White House .
Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem to him , with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it didn't pile unnecessary burdens on the President .
One of the offices slated for reconstruction is the aged Court of Claims , diagonally across the street from the White House .
But Judge Marvin Jones , senior member of the Court , is an elderly gentleman who lives at the nearby Metropolitan Club and desires to walk to work .
More importantly , he also happens to be the brother-in-law of Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House .
On delving deeper , Walton discovered that most of the buildings fronting the Square could be classified as `` early nondescript '' .
The old Belasco Theater , over which many people had grown sentimental , was only a shell of its former self after arduous years as a USO Center .
The Dolley Madison House , Walton concluded , was scarcely worth preserving .
The men's shops on Hanover's Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven .
And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
And this gives rise to an easy camaraderie probably unequaled elsewhere in the Ivy League .
Thus , when Dartmouth's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl .
Dean Thaddeus Seymour , wearing ski clothes , was crowning a beauteous damsel queen of the Carnival .
For example , groups regularly canoe down the Connecticut River .
This is in honor of John Ledyard , class of 1773 , who scooped a canoe out of a handy tree and first set the course way back in his own student days .
They are hailed by the nation's press , and Smith girls throng the riverbanks at Northampton and refresh the voyageurs with hot soup and kisses .
Since the days when their two thousand pairs of skis outnumbered those assembled anywhere else in the United States , the students have stopped regarding the Olympic Ski Team as another name for their own .
Yet Dartmouth still is the dominant member of the Intercollegiate Ski Union , which includes the winter sports colleges of Canada as well as those of this country .
They can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him , or move out to Oak Hill , where there's a lift .
The Dartmouth Skiway , at Holt's Ledge , ten miles north of the campus , has one of the best terrains in the East , ranging from novice to expert .
Forty miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke , Dartmouth's own mountain .
Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts as host every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails .
The Outing Club also owns a chain of fourteen cabins and several shelters , extending from the Vermont hills , just across the river from the college , through Hanover to the College Grant -- 27,000 acres of wilderness 140 miles north up in the logging country .
Under the auspices of the Outing Club , Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club , which takes on tough climbs like Mount McKinley , and Bait & Bullet , whose interests are self-evident , and even sports a Woodman's Team , which competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and chopping , canoe races , and the like .
And on the summit of Mount Washington , where thirty-five degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered higher than anywhere else in the world , there is a kind of wisdom to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas `` because it is there '' .
Their affection for their college home has even caused President Dickey to comment on this `` place loyalty '' as something rather specially Hanoverian .
Probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States .
Early in the nineteenth century the State of New Hampshire was casting about for a way to found its own state university .
It fixed on Dartmouth College , which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered .
The struggle was resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history .
A lawyer , hired by the college , was arguing specifically for Dartmouth : Daniel Webster , class of 1801 , made her plight the dramatic focus of his whole plea .
In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly tears , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax :
Eleazar Wheelock , a Presbyterian minister , founded the school in 1769 , naming it after the second earl of Dartmouth , its sponsor and benefactor .
Eleazar , pausing on the Hanover plain , found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands built the first College Hall , a log hut dedicated `` for the education & instruction of Youth of the Indian Tribes in this Land in reading , writing & all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and expedient for civilizing & christianizing Children of Pagans as well as in all liberal Arts and Sciences ; ;
A road had to be hacked through trackless forests between Hanover and Portsmouth to permit Governor Wentworth and a company of gentlemen to attend the first Dartmouth commencement in 1771 .
Then from the branches of a near-by tree an Indian underclassman , disdaining both the platform and the English language , harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue .
The cook got drunk , and President Wheelock proved to be a man of broad talents by carving the ox himself .
By the end of the nineteenth century , in 1893 , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning , Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine .
The dormitories , including the beloved Dartmouth Hall , could barely house two hundred students in Spartan fashion .
Then in 1893 Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college's great awakening began .
He transformed Dartmouth from a small New Hampshire institution into a national college .
And at his last commencement , in that year , Dr. Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college .
The presidents of Cornell , Wisconsin , C.C.N.Y. , Bowdoin , Vermont , Brown , Columbia , Princeton , Yale , and Harvard and the presidents emeritus of Harvard and Michigan were there .
But it has achieved a cross-section of students from almost all the states , and two-thirds of its undergraduates come from outside New England .
However , three distinguished associated graduate schools offer professional curriculums -- the Dartmouth Medical School ( third oldest in the country and founded in 1797 ) , the Thayer School of Engineering , and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration .
The Thayer School offers a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way , after a boy wins a B.S. in engineering .
So Dartmouth is moving closer to the others in the Ivy group .
However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition .
President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed to corral an `` aristocracy of brains '' in Hanover .
Uncle John Vinnicum Morse was the immediate popular suspect .
It is evident that Lizzie did not tell everything she overheard between her father and her Uncle Morse .
At that time Jennings had a young law associate named Arthur S. Phillips .
A few years ago , not too long before his death , Phillips revealed in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders .
He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently in the house that day , information which must have come from Lizzie .
The New Bedford Standard-Times has reported Knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that if he only knew what Borden said during his conversation with Morse , he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
Notice , Knowlton did not say that he would have obtained a conviction in the trial of Lizzie Borden .
It is known that Morse did associate with a group of itinerant horse traders who made their headquarters at Westport , a town not far from Fall River .
Fall River police did go to Westport to see if they could get any information against Morse and possibly find an accomplice whom he might have hired from among these men .
They interviewed the conductor of the streetcar Morse said he had taken , but the man did not remember Morse as a passenger .
The conductor did recall having priests as passengers and this satisfied police , although the conductor also pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests riding on almost every trip the streetcar made , so Morse's statement really proved nothing .
There is no accounting of his movements in this long gap of time which covers the early hours when Mrs. Borden was killed .
Morse testified that while he was having breakfast in the dining room , Mrs. Borden told the servant , `` Bridget , I want you to wash these windows today '' .
She said it was after she returned from her vomiting spell in the back yard that Mrs. Borden told her to wash the windows .
Morse's knowledge of what Mrs. Borden told Bridget could indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden there .
Mrs. Borden would not have been alarmed if she saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand .
He could have left for Weybosset Street after her murder and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar .
If he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr. Borden came home .
With Lizzie in the barn , the screen door unlocked and Bridget upstairs in her attic room , he would have had free and easy access to the house .
The time would have been shortly after the murder of Mrs. Borden and they noticed nothing unusual in his behavior .
He said he had promised Mrs. Borden to return in time for dinner and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden house .
What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect in his trial-book essay ? ?
`` The police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr. Morse as in possession of guilty knowledge .
indeed , it was probably to Mr. Morse's advantage to have Mr. and Mrs. Borden alive .
Both he and Bridget were exonerated by Lizzie herself '' .
That was his complete discussion of Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect .
Although Pearson disbelieved almost everything Lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did , he happily accepted her statement about Bridget as the whole truth .
The exoneration Pearson speaks of is not an exoneration , but Lizzie's expression of her opinion , as reported in the testimony of Assistant Marshal Fleet .
This officer had asked Lizzie if she suspected her Uncle Morse , and she replied she didn't think he did it because he left the house before the murders and returned after them .
Fleet asked the same question about Bridget , and Lizzie pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget had gone up to her room before her father's murder and came down when she called her .
And , much as she detested Hiram Harrington , she also did not accuse him .
the press reported the same facts in using Harrington's interview , but Lizzie did not suggest at the inquest that Harrington was the killer .
When I interviewed Kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the Borden yard , I asked if anybody else in the household besides Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders .
`` How about Bridget Sullivan '' ? ?
Everyone somehow manages to overlook completely the fact that , as far as we know , there were exactly two people in and about the house at the time of both murders : Lizzie Borden and Bridget Sullivan .
The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the trial with a `` big bundle '' of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping her mouth shut .
If Bridget did get any bundles of cash , the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would have been Lizzie Borden .
She worked as a domestic , first in Newport for a year , and then in South Bethlehem , Pennsylvania , for another year .
She finally settled in Fall River and , after being employed for a time by a Mrs. Reed , was hired by the Bordens .
Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port .
A gentleman of the old school , Mr. Upton possessed intellectual power , ample means , and withal , was a devoted Christian .
An essay on `` Freedom '' written at 10 years of age quoted the Declaration of Independence , the freedom given to slaves in Canada , and the views of George Washington .
Lucy Upton was graduated from the Salem High School when few colleges , only Oberlin and Elmira , were open to women ; ;
A picture of her in high school comes from a younger schoolmate , Albert S. Flint , friend of her brother Winslow , and later , like Winslow , a noted astronomer .
He recalled Lucy , as `` a bright-looking black-eyed young lady who came regularly through the boys' study hall to join the class in Greek in the little recitation room beyond '' .
The study of Greek was the distinctive mark of boys destined to go to college , and Lucy Upton too expected to go to college and take the full classical course offered to men .
When her brother Winslow became a student at Brown University in 1874 , she wrote him about a course in history he was taking under Professor Diman : `` What is Prof. Diman's definition of civilization , and take the world through , is its progress ever onward , or does it retrograde at times ? ?
Many years later ( on August 3 , 1915 ) , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` While I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school , it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing .
She read Maitland's Dark Ages , `` which I enjoyed very much '' ; ;
La Croix on the Customs of the Middle Ages , 16 chapters of Bryce `` and liked it more and more '' ; ;
Lecky and Stanley's Eastern Church .
Also Lucy and Winslow had a private contest to see which one could make the most words from the letters in `` importunately '' .
Who won is not revealed , but Winslow's daughter Eleanor says they got up to 1,212 words .
And it was Lucy Upton who first started the idea of a regular course in Music at Spelman College .
Winslow Upton after graduation from Brown University and two years of graduate study , accepted a position at the Harvard Observatory .
For three years he was connected with the U.S. Naval Observatory and with the U.S. Signal Corps ; ;
The six expeditions to study eclipses of the sun , of which he was a member , took him to Colorado , Virginia , and California as well as to the South Pacific and to Russia .
After her father's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived for a few years with Winslow in Washington , D.C. .
`` Their house '' , writes Albert S. Flint , `` was always a haven of hospitality and good cheer , especially grateful to one like myself far from home '' .
Winslow , as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall , used to characterize her as `` our iron sister '' .
As a matter of fact , Albert S. Flint expressed his conviction that `` her physical strength , her mental power , her lively interest in all objects about her and her readiness to serve her fellow beings '' would have led her `` to a distinguished career amongst the noted women of this country '' .
While in Washington , D.C. , Lucy Upton held positions in the U.S. Census Office , and in the Pension Bureau .
They were not sufficiently challenging however , and she resigned in 1887 , to go to Germany with her brother Winslow and his family while he was there on study .
After the months in Europe , she returned to Boston and became active in church and community life .
What was called an `` accidental meeting '' with Miss Packard in Washington turned her attention to Spelman .
After correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came to Atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay her a salary .
Under Miss Upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption .
After all , she had come to Spelman Seminary in 1888 , and had been since 1891 except for one year , Associate Principal or Dean .
Miss Upton and Miss Packard , as a matter of fact , had many tastes in common .
In 1890 when the trip to Europe and the Holy Land was arranged for Miss Packard , it was Miss Upton who planned the trip , and `` with rare executive ability '' bore the brunt of `` the entire pilgrimage from beginning to end '' .
So strenuous it was physically , with its days of horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton .
At the Fifteenth Anniversary ( 1896 ) as already quoted , Miss Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons .
When Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him , he wrote Miss Tapley ( April 7 , 1923 ) `` If you had asked me , I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton .
Her services to the School for many years were of a very high character , and I have often thought that one of the buildings should be named for her '' .
Such were the qualities of the Acting-President of the Seminary after the death of Miss Giles .
At the meeting of the Board of Trustees , on March 3 , 1910 , Miss Upton presented the annual report of the President .
The raising of the $25,000 Improvement Fund two days before the time limit expired , and the spontaneous `` praise demonstration '' held afterward on the campus , were reported as events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles .
Rockefeller and Packard Halls had been renovated ; ;
Miss Upton spoke gratefully of the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise the Fund , and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly needed current expenses .
Two bequests were recorded : one of $200 under the will of Mrs. Harriet A. Copp of Los Angeles ; ;
and one of $2,000 under the will of Miss Celia L. Brett of Hamilton , New York , a friend from the early days .
Miss Upton told the Trustees that the death of Miss Giles was `` the sorest grief '' the Seminary had ever been called upon to bear .
The daughters of Spelman , she said , had never known or thought of Spelman without her .
The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier had caused them great sorrow , but they still had Miss Giles .
Miss Mary Jane Packard , Sophia's half-sister , became ill in March , 1910 ; ;
She remained in Atlanta through June and July ; ;
Before coming on a visit to Spelman in 1885 , Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester , and her position there was held open for her for a considerable period .
Miss Giles always used to refer to her as `` Sister '' .
Mary J. Packard , states a Messenger editorial , was `` efficient , pains-taking , self-effacing , loving , radiating the spirit of her Master .
The absence of successful Negroes in the world of scholarship and science has tended to tamp down enthusiasm among Negro youth for academic careers .
Here again we run into the roadblock that Negroes do not like to be designated as Negroes in the press .
In a far distant part of the United States , I was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade was doing special work .
An excellent example of a successful location of a new vocational high school is the Dunbar Vocational High School in Chicago .
In the United States , where half of the world crop is grown , soybeans are processed for their edible oil .
American chemists , seeking to increase exports of soybeans , have adapted modern techniques and fermentation methods to improve their use in such traditional Japanese foods as tofu and miso and in tempeh of Indonesia .
Soybean flour , grits , flakes , `` milk '' , and curd can be bought in the United States .
Cereal grains , supplemented with soybeans or dry edible peas or beans , comprise about two-thirds or three-fourths of the diet in parts of Asia and Africa .
In western Europe and North America , where the level of economic development is higher , grains and other seed products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed .
People depend less on seeds for foods in Australia , New Zealand , and Argentina , where extensive grazing lands support sheep or cattle , and the consumption of meat is high .
About 90 percent of the corn used in the United States is fed to animals .
More than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed to livestock annually in the United States .
The efficiency with which animals convert grains and forages to meat has risen steadily in the United States since the 1930's and has paralleled the increased feeding of the cake and meal that are a byproduct when seeds are processed for oil .
Chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial uses are the oil-bearing seeds -- flax , castor , tung ( nuts from the China wood-oil tree ) , perilla ( from an Oriental mint ) , and oiticica ( from a Brazilian tree ) .
Corn and wheat supply most of the starch in the United States , Canada , and Australia .
Today the yearly import into the United States of locust bean gum is more than 15 million pounds ; ;
The discovery during the Second World War that guar gum was similar to imported locust gum increased its cultivation in western Asia and initiated it in the United States .
Coconuts , the fruit of the coconut palm , have the largest of all known seeds and are grown in South Pacific islands as a crop for domestic and export markets .
The oil palm of West Africa yields edible oil from both the flesh and the seed or kernel of its fruit .
Since Biblical times , rosaries have been made from jobs-tears -- the seeds of an Asiatic grass .
Bead tree seeds are the necklaces of South Pacific islanders and the eyes of Buddha dolls in Cuba .
Sesame seed , which comes from the tall pods of a plant grown in Egypt , Brazil , and Central America , has a toasted-nut flavor and can be used in almost any dish calling for almonds .
It is a main flavoring for halvah , the candy of the Middle East .
Per capita consumption remains around 16 pounds in the United States .
World production of about 1 million tons is divided primarily between Africa ( 63 percent ) and South America ( 27 percent ) .
Several soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts , the seed of the kola tree cultivated in the West Indies and South America .
Beer was brewed by the Babylonians and Egyptians more than 6 thousand years ago .
Seed crops hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy of the United States .
More than 11 thousand business establishments in the United States were based on cereals and oilseeds in 1954 .
The most common reference to `` wet stock '' was with the meanin' that such animals had been smuggled across the Rio Grande after bein' stolen from their rightful owners .
The Injun's name for beef was `` wohaw '' , and many of the old frontiersmen adopted it from their association with the Injun on the trails .
Listenin' with wonder at the strange words of the bullwhackers as they shouted `` Whoa '' , `` Haw '' , and `` Gee '' , they thought them words the names of the animals , and began callin' cattle `` wohaws '' .
`` Bull tailin' '' was a game once pop'lar with the Mexican cowboys of Texas .
The northern cowboy called all the red Mexican cattle which went up the trail `` Sonora reds '' , while they called all cattle drove up from Mexico `` yaks '' , because they came from the Yaqui Injun country , or gave 'em the name of `` Mexican buckskins '' .
The origin of this sayin' was credited to a saloonkeeper by the name of Luke Murrin .
His saloon was a meetin' place for influential Wyoming cattlemen , and one year durin' a severe blizzard , when his herd-owner customers were wearin' long faces , he said , `` Cheer up , boys , whatever happens , the books won't freeze '' .
No matter by what name cattle were called , there was no denyin' that they not only saved Texas from financial ruin , but went far toward redeemin' from a wilderness vast territories of the Northwest .
He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain .
This mountain was known as The Black Reef and it rose almost perpendicularly for about two hundred feet , honeycombed with caves , top covered with dense scrub and creepers and tall grass .
Kearton and Ulyate had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs , and Means and Loveless had taken another route , and now , with the discovery of the fresh trail still unknown to him , Ulyate reined in , in the shadow of the Reef and pointed .
`` That's the Colonel '' , he said , `` But I can't see the dogs '' .
As they watched , Jones rode straight for the Reef .
The pack had made a bend to the north , swinging back toward the Reef , and Kearton and Ulyate could hear them faintly .
Kearton got off and tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless and Means and the rest of the party .
Jones came toward them fast , now , along the southern toe of the Reef , and the dogs could be heard plainly , Old John with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others .
There was Sounder , too , also a veteran of the North Rim , and Rastus and the Rake from a pack of English fox-hounds , and a collie from a London pound , and Simba , a terrier .
The route was choked with rugged lava-rocks , creepers and bushes , so thickly overgrown that when Kearton lost sight of Ulyate and called , Ulyate answered from ten feet away .
Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion , till they came , out of breath , to the crest , and peering through the branches of a bush , this is what Ulyate saw : Jones who had apparently ( and actually had ) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside , sitting calmly on his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness , who was crouched on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him , while the dogs whirled around her .
But John nipped her rear end -- one lion's rear end was as good as another to John , Africa , Arizona no matter -- and she changed ends and took a swipe at John , but he ducked back .
At this moment , Loveless and Means arrived , crashing through the undergrowth with their horses , and distracted her , and she ran off a short distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks .
The dogs followed her and she killed three and badly wounded Old John .
`` Don't you go a step nearer her than I do '' , Jones warned , `` and if you do , go at a run so you'll have momentum '' ! !
`` I'll get a pole '' , Jones said finally , `` and I'll poke a noose over her head '' ! !
She was closing and within one more bound would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay , but -- and here Jones and Loveless and Ulyate were holding breath for all they were worth -- she never quite caught up that last bound .
A Western cowpony had outrun an African lion , from a standing start .
The lioness quickly changed front , when she saw she couldn't catch Means , and made for Jones .
As she had done with Means , she gained rapidly at first , but then Baldy began to draw away .
So : Means edged around on the north side of her , Jones moved in from the south .
They may even dismiss it from their minds as something that concerns only the `` ecclesiastical Rover Boys '' , as someone has dubbed them , who like to go to national and international assemblies , and have expense accounts that permit them to do so .
Progress will take place far less through what is done in any `` summit conference '' of the National Council or the World Council , or even in offices of the denominational boards , than through what happens in the communities where Christian people live together as neighbors .
As things now stand , there is a grievous disparity between the unity in Christ which we profess in ecumenical meetings and the complacent separateness of most congregations on any Main Street in the nation .
The truth , however , is that the ecumenical church is just the local church in its own true character as an integral unit of the whole People of God throughout the world .
The Jewish synagogue affords a parallel to the Christian congregation , but Hinduism , Buddhism , Islam , Confucianism , Taoism , Shintoism , although they have sacred scriptures , priests , spiritual disciplines , and places of prayer , do not have a congregation as a local household of faith and love .
How far the fellowship in most local churches falls below what the New Testament means by koinonia ! !
The koinonia of Acts and of the Epistles means sharing in a common relation to Christ .
It is an experience of a new depth of community derived from an awareness of the corporate indwelling of Christ in His people .
As Dietrich Bonhoffer puts it , `` Our community with one another consists solely in what Christ has done to both of us '' .
There is a vast difference between the community of reconciliation which the New Testament describes and the community of congeniality found in the average church building .
Whenever a congregation really sees itself as a unit in the universal Church , in vital relation with the whole Body of Christ and participating in His mission to the world , a necessary foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid .
Of course , the perspective of those who are dealing directly with the world-wide problems of the People of God will always be different from the perspective of those who are dealing with the nearby problems of particular persons in a particular place .
A little parable illustrative of this truth is afforded by an incident related by Professor Bela Vasady at the end of the Second World War .
With great difficulty he made his way from his native Hungary to Geneva to renew his contacts as a member of the Provisional Committee for the World Council of Churches .
They do not escape the pitfall into which Charles Dickens pictured Mrs. Jellyby as falling .
Likewise , the ecumenist may become so absorbed in the conflict of the church with the totalitarian state in East Germany , the precarious situation of the church in revolutionary China , and the anguish of the church over apartheid in South Africa that he loses close contact with the parish church in its unspectacular but indispensable ministry of worship , pastoral service and counseling , and Christian nurture for a face-to-face group of individuals .
It is not developing an awareness of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young churches emerge in Asia and Africa .
A visitor to the beautiful little building inquired , `` Do you belong to this church , Mr. Rancher '' ? ?
There must first be a deeper sense that the church belongs not to us but to Christ , and that it is His purpose , not our own interests and preferences , that determines what it is to be and do .
It would doubtless be greatly surprised to be told that in failing to be ecumenical it is really failing to be the Church of Christ .
Yet the truth , according to the New Testament , is that every local church has its existence only by being the embodiment of the whole church in that particular place .
Radio broadcasts had not begun and most devotees of baseball attended the games near home , in the town park or a pasture , with perhaps two or three trips to the city each season to see the Cubs or the Pirates or the Indians or the Red Sox .
Nearly any lad with a modicum of skill might find a payday awaiting him in the Three I League , or the Pony League , or the Coastal Plains League , or the fast Eastern League , if not indeed in one of the hundreds of city leagues that abounded everywhere .
As the twenties grew older , and as radio broadcasts of baseball games began to involve more and more people daily in the doings of the professionals , the great hitters ( always led by Babe Ruth ) overshadowed the game so that pitchers were nearly of no account .
Boys no longer bothered learning to bunt and even school kids scorned to `` choke up '' on a bat as Willie Keeler and the famous hitters of another day had done .
Other hitters bloomed with more or less vigor in the news and a few even dared to dream of matching Ruth , who was still called Jidge by all his friends , or Leo or Two-Head by those who dared to taunt him ( Leo was the name of the ball player he liked the least ) and who called most of the world `` Kid '' .
Lou Gehrig was given the nickname Buster , and he ran Ruth a close race in home runs .
But the nickname never stuck and Gehrig was no match for Ruth in `` color '' -- which is sometimes a polite word for delinquent behavior on and off the field .
A few professional baseball players cultivated eccentricities , with the encouragement of the press , so that they might see their names in big black print , along with Daddy Browning's , Al Capone's , Earl Sande's , and the Prince of Wales' .
One who , for a time , succeeded best and was still the sorriest of all was Charles Arthur Shires , who called himself , in the newspapers , Art the Great , or The Great Shires .
and a policeman asserted he had found a pair of brass knuckles in Art's pocket once when he had occasion to collar the Great First Baseman for some forgotten reason .
( This made a sportswriter named Pegler wonder in print if Art had worn this armament when he defeated his manager .
In his minor way Charles Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was , for he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers .
One young man , exhilarated to the point of insanity by liquor and the excitement of the moment , performed a perfect swan dive out of the stands at the Yale Bowl during the Yale-Army football game , landed squarely on his head on the concrete ramp below , and died at once .
The business of baseball began to prosper along with other entertainments , and performers -- thanks partly to George Herman Ruth's spectacular efforts each season to run his salary higher and higher -- prospered too .
While fifty years before , Albert Goodwill Spalding , secretary of the Chicago Ball Club of the National League , could write earnestly to the manager of the Buffalo club and request a guarantee of one hundred dollars for a baseball game in August , in this Golden Era a game at the Yankee Stadium might bring in nearly a hundred thousand dollars at the gate .
And while less than ten years earlier the wayward Black Sox -- all of them top performers in their positions -- had toiled for stingy Charles Comiskey at salaries ranging from twenty-five hundred dollars to forty-five hundred dollars a year , stars now were asking ten thousand dollars , twenty thousand dollars , yes , even fifty thousand dollars a season .
The greatest team of this period was unquestionably the New York Yankees , bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club by men named Ed Barrow and Miller Huggins .
Boston fans sometimes liked to wring some wry satisfaction out of the fact that most of the great 1923-27 crew were graduates of the Red Sox -- sold to millionaires Huston and Ruppert by a man who could not deny them their most trifling desire .
Ruth himself , still owning his farm in Massachusetts and an interest in the Massachusetts cigar business that printed his round boyish face on the wrappers , had led the parade down from Fenway Park , followed by pitchers Carl Mays , Leslie `` Joe '' Bush , Waite Hoyt , Herb Pennock , and Sam Jones , catcher Wally Schang , third baseman Joe Dugan ( who completed the `` playboy trio '' of Ruth , Dugan , and Hoyt ) , and shortstop Everett Scott .
By 1926 , when the mighty Yanks were at their mightiest , only a few of these were left but they still shone brightest , even beside able and agile rookies like Tony Lazzeri ( who managed never to have one of his epileptic fits on the field ) , Mark Koenig , Lou Gehrig , George Pipgras , and gray-thatched Earl Combs .
The deeds of this team , through two seasons and in the two World's Series that followed , have been written and talked about until hardly a word is left to be said .
But there is one small episode that a few New York fans who happened to sit in the cheap seats for one World's Series game in 1926 like best to recall .
Babe Ruth , as he always did in the Stadium , played right field to avoid having the sun in his eyes , and Tommy Thevenow , a rather mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals , knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the permanent stands and the wooden bleachers , where Ruth could not reach it .
The ball lay there , shining white on the grass in view of nearly every fan in the park while Ruth , red-necked with frustration , charged about the small patch of ground screaming , `` Where's the -- -ing ball '' ? ?
The ordinary man and woman , however , saw little of the great professional games of those Golden Days , or of any other sporting event for that matter .
Radio , however , so increased the interest of women in the game that it was hardly necessary even to have `` Ladies' Days '' any longer to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home .
Our discussion of this involves using Erik Erikson's schema of `` identity vs. identity diffusion '' as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers from whose case histories we quoted earlier .
And , as shown in Chapter 6 , , some SNP females originally developed such trust only during their adolescence , through the aid of , and their identification with , alter-parents .
It is mirrored by the individual Willie Lohmans , whose ideas and behavior patterns are so dependent and relativistic that they always coincide with those of the individual or group present and most important at the moment .
In a long and angry footnote to his opinion , Judge Hough had lent the weight of judicial condemnation to such criticism .
`` It is a duty '' , said Hough , `` not to let pass this opportunity of protesting against the methods of taking and printing testimony in Equity , current in this circuit ( and probably others ) , excused if not justified by the rules of the Supreme Court , especially to be found in patent causes , and flagrantly exemplified in this litigation .
As long as the bar prefers to adduce evidence by written deposition , rather than viva voce before an authoritative judicial officer , I fear that the antiquated rules will remain unchanged , and expensive prolixity remain the best known characteristic of Equity '' .
The fundamental difficulty of which the Selden case was `` a striking ( though not singular ) example '' , concluded Hough , `` will remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial officer present , and responsible for the maintenance of discipline , and the reception or exclusion of testimony '' .
William A. Redding asserted that if the case had been heard in open court under rules of evidence , the testimony would have been completed in sixty days instead of five years .
Its costive deliberations were likened to those of the British courts of chancery mercilessly caricatured by Dickens in Bleak House .
In a detailed letter published in the Scientific American in 1912 , he remarked that `` loose statements '' about the case showed scant understanding of the facts .
The vast industrial interests caught up in the Selden suit , as well as the complex character of the automotive art , encouraged both sides to exploit `` every possible chance '' for or against the patent , said Parker .
In the end Hough's acidulous protest , which Parker called the `` now somewhat famous note on this ' Selden ' case '' , did not go unheeded .
In 1912 the United States Supreme Court adopted a new set of rules of equity which became effective on February 1 , 1913 .
There is little doubt that they were promulgated by the Supreme Court as a direct result of the Selden patent suit .
Even before it was formally dissolved in 1912 , the A.L.A.M. was succeeded by the Automobile Board of Trade , the direct lineal ancestor of the present-day Automobile Manufacturers Association .
As early as 1900 a Wall Street combination acquired detail patents with the intention of exacting heavy tribute from automobile manufacturers .
The highly important Dyer patents on the sliding gear transmission were held by the A.L.A.M. pool .
But Henry Ford used the planetary transmission in his Model T and earlier cars and , in 1905 , as a precautionary measure , took out a license from the man who claimed to be its inventor .
The prevailing view in the industry was summed up in 1912 by a group of auto makers who told a Senate committee : `` The exceedingly unsatisfactory and uselessly expensive conditions , including delays surrounding legal disputes , particularly in patent litigation , are items of industrial burden which must be written large in figures of many millions of dollars of industrial waste '' .
At this point Charles C. Hanch , long an advocate of patent peace in the industry , became chairman of the patents committee of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce , successor to the Automobile Board of Trade .
Hanch was treasurer of the Nordyke & Marmon Company , an Indianapolis firm which had manufactured flour-milling machinery before producing the Marmon car in 1904 .
Anxious to avoid a similar debacle in the motor car industry , Hanch went to Detroit in 1909 to enlist the support of leading A.L.A.M. members for an industry-wide patent-sharing plan .
The breach created by the Selden patent doomed his proposal , but Hanch did not abandon his scheme .
With the other members of the patents committee -- Wilfred C. Leland , Howard E. Coffin , Windsor T. White , and W. H. Vandervoort -- Hanch drafted a cross-licensing agreement whose essential feature of royalty-free licensing was his own contribution .
The plan was supported by Frederick P. Fish , counsel for the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce .
It will be recalled that in his summation for the A.L.A.M. before Judge Hough , Fish had condemned patent litigation as the curse of the American industrial community .
A little farther along the road you come to the Church of Santa Sabina , called the `` Pearl of the Aventine '' .
Continue another hundred yards to the Piazza of the Knights of Malta .
The massive gate of the Maltese villa affords one of the most extraordinary views in Rome .
If you look through the keyhole , you will see an artistically landscaped garden with the white dome of St. Peter's framed in a long avenue of cropped laurel trees .
Retrace your steps a few yards on the Via Di Santa Sabina and turn right on the Via Di S. Alessio , a street lined with stately homes .
Turn left a block or so before the street ends , and then turn right down the Via Di Santa Prisca to the Viale Aventino .
You will visit a few churches that are exceptional yet often by-passed , a magnificent square , the main shopping district , the Spanish Steps , and the lovely Pincian Gardens .
By seeing such varied places , both interesting and beautiful , you will become aware of the many different civilizations Rome has lived through , and in particular , get a feel of Renaissance Rome .
You will realize why Rome is indeed the Eternal City .
Start on the Via D. Teatro Di Marcello at the foot of the Capitoline Hill .
The majestic circular tiers of stone of the Theatre of Marcellus give you some idea of the huge edifice that the Emperor Augustus erected in 13 B.C. .
Andrea Palladio , an Italian architect of the sixteenth century , modeled his designs on its Doric and Ionic columns .
Wander past the three superb Columns of Apollo by the arches of the theatre .
The remains of the Portico of Octavia are now in front of you .
Climb the steps from the theatre to the Via Della Tribuna Di Campitelli for an even better view of the Columns of Apollo .
Turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny Piazza Campitelli , then proceed along the Via Dei Funari to the Piazza Mattei .
Here is one of the loveliest fountains in Rome , the Fontana delle Tartarughe or `` Fountain of the Tortoises '' .
Opposite is the Palazzo Mattei , one of Rome's oldest palaces , now the headquarters of the Italo-American Association .
The Palazzo Caetani , still inhabited by the Caetani family , adjoins the Palazzo Mattei .
Keep straight ahead on the Via Falegnami , cross the wide Via Arenula , and you will come to the Piazza B. Cairoli , where you should look in at the Church of San Carlo Ai Catinari to see the frescoes on the ceiling .
Follow the colorful and busy Via D. Giubbonari for a hundred yards or so .
Now turn left at the Via dell' Arco Del Monte to the Piazza Dei Pellegrini .
Just a few yards to the right on the Via Capo Di Ferro will bring you to the Palazzo Spada , built in 1540 and now occupied by the Council of State .
Paintings by Titian , Caravaggio , and Rubens are on display ( open 9:30 to 4:00 ) .
Before you enter the palazzo , note Francesco Borromini's facade .
The large statue on the first floor is believed to be the statue of Pompey at the base of which Julius Caesar was stabbed to death ( if so , the statue once stood in the senate house ) .
From the Palazzo Spada you continue another block along the Via Capo Di Ferro and Vicolo De Venti to the imposing Palazzo Farnese , begun in 1514 and considered by many to be the finest palace of all .
Today it is occupied by the French Embassy .
Ask to see the modern tapestries of Paris and Rome designed by Lurcat .
Directly in front of the palace along the Via D. Baullari you will come to the Campo Di Fiori , the famous site of executions during the turbulent days of Renaissance Rome .
Continue on the Via D. Baullari to the Corso Vittorio Emanuele , then turn right for a couple of hundred yards to the Church of Sant' Andrea Della Valle .
As you approach the church on the Via D. Baullari you are passing within yards of the remains of the Roman Theatre of Pompey , near which is believed to have been the place where Julius Caesar was assassinated .
The dome of the church is , outside of St. Peter's , one of the largest in Rome .
At this point you cross the wide Corso Vittorio Emanuele 2 , , walk along the Corso Del Rinascimento a couple of hundred yards , then turn left on the Via Dei Canestrani to enter the splendid Piazza Navona , one of the truly glorious sights in Rome .
Giovanni Bernini's `` Fountain of the Rivers '' , in the center of the piazza , is built around a Roman obelisk from the Circus of Maxentius which rests on grottoes and rocks , with four huge figures , one at each corner , denoting four great rivers from different continents -- the Danube , the Ganges , the Nile , and the Plate .
The eyes of the figure of the Nile are covered , perhaps either to symbolize the mystery of her source or to obscure from her sight the baroque facade of the Church of Sant' Agnese in Agone , the work of Bernini's rival , Borromini .
In the Piazza Navona there are many delightful cafes where you can sit , have a drink or lunch , and watch the fountains in the square .
Take the Via Di S. Agnese in Agone , next to the church and opposite the center of the square , then turn right after about two hundred yards to reach the beautiful Church of Santa Maria Della Pace .
Inside you will find the lovely Sibyls painted by Raphael and a chapel designed by Michelangelo .
The church's cloisters are among Donato Bramante's most beautiful creations .
Now return to the Piazza Navona and leave it on the opposite side by the Corsia Agonale ; ;
in a moment cross the Corso Del Rinascimento .
In front of you is the Palazzo Madama , once belonging to the Medici and now the Italian Senate .
Walk by the side of the palazzo and after two blocks along the Via Giustiniani you will come to the Piazza Della Rotonda .
You are now facing the Pantheon , the largest and best-preserved building still standing from the days of ancient Rome .
This circular edifice , constructed by Agrippa in B.C. 27 , was rebuilt in its present shape by the Emperor Hadrian .
As you pause in the piazza by the Egyptian obelisk brought from the Temple of Isis , you will admire the Pantheon's impressive Corinthian columns .
Standing before the tomb of Raphael , the great genius of the Renaissance , when shafts of sunlight are penetrating this great Roman temple , you are once again reminded of the varied civilizations so characteristic of Rome .
As you leave the Pantheon , take the narrow street to the right , the Via Del Seminario , a block to Sant' Ignazio , one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city .
( Along the way there , about one hundred yards on your right , you pass a simple restaurant , La Sacrestia , where you can have the best pizza in Rome .
One block along the Via De Burro ( in front of the church ) will bring you to the Stock Exchange in the old Temple of Neptune .
A few yards farther , on the Via Dei Bergamaschi , is the Piazza Colonna .
The great column from which the square takes its name was erected by the Emperor Marcus Aurelius .
You are now at the Corso , though narrow , one of Rome's busiest streets .
Horse races took place here in the Middle Ages .
If you have taken this stroll in the morning , and you have the time and inclination , walk to the right along the crowded Corso for half a dozen blocks to visit the fine private collection of paintings -- mainly of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries -- in the Palazzo Doria ( open Sunday , Tuesday , and Thursday , 10:00 to 1:00 ) .
The second walk through the heart of Rome should be taken after lunch , so that you will reach the Pincian Hill when the soft light of the late afternoon is at its best .
( And this is not , perhaps , the place to discuss Harlem's very complex attitude toward black policemen , nor the reasons , according to Harlem , that they are nearly all downtown .
People who have mastered Kant , Hegel , Shakespeare , Marx , Freud , and the Bible find this statement utterly impenetrable .
I once tried to describe to a very well-known American intellectual the conditions among Negroes in the South .
and he asked me in perfect innocence , `` Why don't all the Negroes in the South move North '' ? ?
I tried to explain what has happened , unfailingly , whenever a significant body of Negroes move North .
They do not escape Jim Crow : they merely encounter another , not-less-deadly variety .
They do not move to Chicago , they move to the South Side ; ;
they do not move to New York , they move to Harlem .
This is precisely what happened when the Puerto Ricans arrived in their thousands -- and the bitterness thus caused is , as I write , being fought out all up and down those streets .
They seem to feel that because they fought on the right side during the Civil War , and won , they have earned the right merely to deplore what is going on in the South , without taking any responsibility for it ; ;
and that they can ignore what is happening in Northern cities because what is happening in Little Rock or Birmingham is worse .
I know Negroes who prefer the South and white Southerners , because `` At least there , you haven't got to play any guessing games '' ! !
I know another Negro , a man very dear to me , who says , with conviction and with truth , `` The spirit of the South is the spirit of America '' .
He was born in the North and did his military training in the South .
He did not , as far as I can gather , find the South `` worse '' ; ;
In the second place , though , even if Birmingham is worse , no doubt Johannesburg , South Africa , beats it by several miles , and Buchenwald was one of the worst things that ever happened in the entire history of the world .
As far as the color problem is concerned , there is but one great difference between the Southern white and the Northerner : the Southerner remembers , historically and in his own psyche , a kind of Eden in which he loved black people and they loved him .
Historically , the flaming sword laid across this Eden is the Civil War .
The resulting , indescribable torment affects every Southern mind and is the basis of the Southern hysteria .
Negroes are , therefore , ignored in the North and are under surveillance in the South , and suffer hideously in both places .
Neither the Southerner nor the Northerner is able to look on the Negro simply as a man .
It seems to be indispensable to the national self-esteem that the Negro be considered either as a kind of ward ( in which case we are told how many Negroes , comparatively , bought Cadillacs last year and how few , comparatively , were lynched ) , or as a victim ( in which case we are promised that he will never vote in our assemblies or go to school with our kids ) .
They are two sides of the same coin and the South will not change -- cannot change -- until the North changes .
East River , downtown : postscript to a letter from Harlem
the fact that American Negroes rioted in the U.N. while Adlai Stevenson was addressing the Assembly shocked and baffled most white Americans .
Stevenson's speech , and the spectacular disturbance in the gallery , were both touched off by the death , in Katanga , the day before , of Patrice Lumumba .
Stevenson stated , in the course of his address , that the United States was `` against '' colonialism .
God knows what the African nations , who hold 25 per cent of the voting stock in the U.N. were thinking -- they may , for example , have been thinking of the U.S. abstention when the vote on Algerian freedom was before the Assembly -- but I think I have a fairly accurate notion of what the Negroes in the gallery were thinking .
I was curious about the impact of this political assassination on Negroes in Harlem , for Lumumba had -- has -- captured the popular imagination there .
And I was curious about the African reaction .
Had I been there , I , too , in the eyes of most Americans , would have been merely a pawn in the hands of the Communists .
The climate and the events of the last decade , and the steady pressure of the `` cold '' war , have given Americans yet another means of avoiding self-examination , and so it has been decided that the riots were `` Communist '' inspired .
Nor was it long , naturally , before prominent Negroes rushed forward to assure the republic that the U.N. rioters do not represent the real feeling of the Negro community .
According , then , to what I take to be the prevailing view , these rioters were merely a handful of irresponsible , Stalinist-corrupted provocateurs .
The first question is : Would I like to live here ? ?
Unless one takes refuge in the theory -- however disguised -- that Negroes are , somehow , different from white people , I do not see how one can escape the conclusion that the Negro's status in this country is not only a cruel injustice but a grave national liability .
Now , I do not doubt that , among the people at the U.N. that day , there were Stalinist and professional revolutionists acting out of the most cynical motives .
What I find appalling -- and really dangerous -- is the American assumption that the Negro is so contented with his lot here that only the cynical agents of a foreign power can rouse him to protest .
Motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can still be found in such urban areas as Times Square .
An early Edison production was The Execution Of Mary , Queen Of Scots .
An early film by a competitor of the Wizard of Menlo Park simply showed a long kiss performed by two actors of the contemporary stage .
Thus such great American documentaries as The River and The Plow That Broke The Plains were composed as visual stories rather than as illustrated lectures .
The discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early years of this century and it was made chiefly by two men , a French magician , Georges Melies , and an American employee of Edison , Edwin S. Porter .
The movie was The Great Train Robbery and its effects on the young industry and art were all but incalculable .
The Great Train Robbery is a one-reel film .
One reel -- from eight to twelve minutes -- became the standard length from the year of Robbery , 1903 , until Griffith shattered that limit forever with Birth Of A Nation in 1915 .
If the change , at first sight , seems minor , we may recall that it took the Italian painters about two hundred years to make an analogous change , and the Italian painters , by universal consent , were the most brilliant group of geniuses any art has seen .
The `` chase '' as a standard film device probably dates from The Great Train Robbery , and there is a reason for the continued popularity of the device .
Great actors and actresses -- the most notable being Sarah Bernhardt -- were hired to repeat their stage performances before the camera .
If it were primarily a believing fellowship , it would recruit believers from all social and economic ranks , something which most congregations of the New Protestantism ( with a few notable exceptions ) have not been able to do .
The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences has often been attributed to the `` folksy spirit '' of Protestant religious life ; ;
There is much talk in theological circles about the `` Church as Mission '' and the `` Church's Mission '' ; ;
Negroes , Puerto Ricans , and rural newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities .
The lavish use of presents had been effective in expanding the Indian trade of New France and Louisiana in the previous century , and the change in liberality aroused resentment in the minds of the red men .
Traders from the English colonies were far more generous , and Indian loyalty turned to them .
In 1721 the King sent three commissioners to Louisiana with full powers to do all that was necessary to protect the colony .
For southeastern Louisiana , Mobile was the principal post , and it was to furnish supplies for trade to the north and east , in the region threatened by British traders .
Mobile was to be the anchor of a chain of posts extending northward to the sources of the Tennessee River .
Fort Toulouse , on the Alabama River , had been erected in 1714 for trade with the Alabamas and Choctaws , but money was available for only one other new post , near the present Nashville , Tennessee , and this was soon abandoned .
West of the Mobile district was the lower Mississippi district , of which New Orleans was headquarters .
Dependent upon it were posts on the lower Mississippi and the region westward to the frontiers of New Spain .
On the middle Mississippi a principal post was to be located near the mouth of the Arkansas .
It was hoped that to this post would flow a large quantity of furs from the west , principally down the Arkansas River .
On the Ohio or Wabash was to be built another post `` at the fork of two great rivers '' .
Other posts would be established up the Ohio and Wabash to protect communication with Canada .
On the upper Mississippi the Illinois post was to be established near Kaskaskia , and dependent posts were to be built on the Missouri , `` where there are mines in abundance '' .
Each of the five principal posts was to have a director , responsible to a director-general at New Orleans .
Only two principal storehouses were actually established -- one at Mobile , the other at New Orleans .
New Orleans supplied the goods for the trade on the Mississippi , and west of that river , and on the Ohio and Wabash .
Mobile was also supplied by New Orleans with goods for the Mobile district .
Regulations for the Indian trade were made by the Conseil superieure de la Louisiane , and Bienville apparently did not have control of that body .
The Conseil even treated the serious matter of British aggression as its business and , on its own authority , sent to disaffected savages merchandise `` suitable for the peltry trade '' .
It decided , also , that the purely secular efforts of Bienville were insufficient , and sent missionaries to win the savages from the heathen Carolinians .
During the first administration of Bienville , the peltry trade of the Mobile district was a lucrative source of revenue .
The Alabamas brought in annually 15,000 to 20,000 deerskins , and the Choctaws and Chickasaws brought the total up to 50,000 pelts .
During his first administration , Bienville succeeded in keeping Carolina traders out of the Alabama country and the Choctaw country .
The director of the post at Mobile kept an adequate amount of French goods , of a kind to which they were accustomed , to supply the Indian needs .
The Alabama and Tombigbee rivers furnished a highway by which goods could be moved quickly and cheaply .
De La Laude , commander of the Alabama post , had the friendship of the natives , and was able to make them look upon the British as poor competitors .
He became , after a time , commander of a post on the Alabama River , but his operations extended from Mobile throughout the district , and he finally obtained a monopoly of the Indian trade .
The Chickasaws were the principal source of trouble in the Mobile district .
Their territory lay to the north , near the sources of the Alabama , the Tombigbee , the Tennessee , and Cumberland rivers , and was easily accessible to traders among the near-by Cherokees .
In 1720 some Chickasaws massacred the French traders among them , and did not make peace for four years .
Venturesome traders , however , continued to come to them from Mobile , and to obtain a considerable number of pelts for the French markets .
British traders from South Carolina incited the Indians against the French , and there developed French and British Factions in the tribe .
The Chickasaws finally were the occasion for the most disastrous wars during the French control of Louisiana .
To hold them was an essential part of French policy , for they controlled the upper termini of the routes from the north to Mobile .
They threatened constantly to give the British a hold on this region , from whence they could move easily down the rivers to the French settlements near the Gulf .
Bienville realized that if the French were to hold the southeastern tribes against the enticements of British goods , French traders must be able to offer a supply as abundant as the Carolinians and at reasonable prices .
The Company of the Indies promised to send over a supply of Indian trading goods , and to price them more cheaply in terms of deerskins .
But it coupled with this a requirement that Indians must bring their pelts to Mobile and thus save all costs of transportation into and out of the Indian country .
The insistence of Bienville upon giving liberal prices to the Indians , in order to drive back the Carolina traders , was probably a factor that led to his recall in 1724 .
For two years his friend and cousin , Boisbriant , remained as acting governor and could do little to stem the Anglican advance .
Although he incited a few friendly Indians to pillage the invaders , and even kill some of them , the Carolina advance continued .
The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina , and when Perier came over as governor in 1727 , he was given special instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district .
But the Company of the Indies , holding to its program of economy , made no arrangements to furnish better goods at attractive prices .
These agents were to ascertain the difference between English and French goods , and the prices charged the Indians .
He asked the government for two hundred soldiers , who were to be specifically assigned to arrest English traders and disloyal Indians .
No help came from the crown , and Perier , in desperation , gave a monopoly of the Indian trade in the district to D'Artaguette .
The Indians were not impressed and held to the Carolina traders , who swarmed over the country , almost to the Mississippi .
With the loss of the Mobile trade , which ended all profits from Louisiana , the Natchez Indians revolted .
They destroyed a trading house and pillaged the goods , and harassed French shipping on the Mississippi .
Thenceforth , the commerce of Louisiana was free to all Frenchmen .
In order to compete with English traders , Bienville radically changed the price schedule .
The King should expect no profit , and an advance of only 20 per cent above the cost in France , which would cover the expense of transportation and handling , was all he charged the traders .
They would not be pleased to have it published back home that they planned a frolic in Paris or Hong Kong at the Treasury's expense .
They would be particularly displeased with the State Department if it were the source of such reports .
Few things are more perilous for the State Department than a displeased congressman .
The reason for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why State spends so much of its diplomatic energy on Congress when the Russians are so available .
First , the State Department is unique among government agencies for its lack of public supporters .
The farmers may be aroused if Congress cuts into the Agriculture Department's budget .
Businessmen will rise if Congress attacks the Commerce Department .
Labor restrains undue brutality toward the Labor Department ; ;
the Chamber of Commerce , assaults upon the Treasury .
A kaleidoscope of pressure groups make it unpleasant for the congressman who becomes ugly toward the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare .
The congressman's patriotism is always involved when he turns upon the Defense Department .
Tampering with the Post Office may infuriate every voter who can write .
No such political restraint subdues his blood when he gazes upon the State Department in anger .
And are not the State Department men who dispense this largesse merely crackpots and do-gooders who have never met a payroll ? ?
The result is that the State Department's perpetual position before Congress is the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife .
The Department expects and receives no thanks from Congress for its discretion .
But come the next session of Congress , State can expect only that its summer guest will bite its hand when it goes to the Capitol asking money for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for its diplomats .
The congressman who , in Paris , may have stuffed his wallet with enough franc notes to paper the roof of Notre-Dame will systematically scream that a $200 increase in entertainment allowance for a second secretary is tantamount to debauchery of the Treasury .
In the matter of money State's most unrelenting watchdog during the Eisenhower years was Representative John J. Rooney , of Brooklyn , who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses .
Diplomats stayed up nights thinking of ways to attain peaceful coexistence , not with Nikita Khrushchev , but with John Rooney .
`` The trouble , '' explained Loy Henderson , then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration , `` is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing , it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we do '' .
Next day , reports went through the Department that Rooney had been outraged by what he considered a patent attempt to put public pressure on him for increased entertainment allowances and had sworn an oath that , that year , expense allowances would not rise a dollar .
The Department's constant fight with the House for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic bloody engagements with the Senate .
Armed with constitutional power to negate the Executive's foreign policy , the Senate carries a big stick and is easily provoked to use it on the State Department's back , or on the head of the Secretary of State .
With its power to investigate , the Senate can paralyze the Secretary by keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees , as it did with Dean Acheson .
John Foster Dulles escaped by keeping his personal show on the road and because Lyndon Johnson , who was then operating the Senate , refused to let it become an Inquisition .
During Dulles's first two years in office , while Republicans ran the Senate , the Department was at the mercy of men who had thirsted for its blood since 1945 .
An internal police operation managed by Scott McLeod , a former F.B.I. man installed as security officer upon congressional insistence , was part of the vengeance .
So was the attack upon Charles E. Bohlen when Eisenhower appointed him Ambassador to Moscow .
The principal mauler , however , was Senator Joseph McCarthy .
Where Acheson had fought a gallant losing battle for the Department , Dulles fed the crocodile with his subordinates .
In view of Eisenhower's reluctance to concede that anything was amiss in the Terror , it is doubtful that heroic intervention by Dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him and the country's foreign policy .
In any event , the example of Acheson's trampling by the Senate did not encourage Dulles to provoke it .
During this dark chapter in State Department history , men who had offered foreign-policy ideas later proven wrong by events filled the tumbrels sent up to Capitol Hill .
In the new style , the Department was berated as intellectually barren and unable to produce the vital ideas needed to outwit the Russians .
They range from the Soviet Embassy on Sixteenth Street , a gray shuttered pile suggesting a funeral-accessories display house , to what Congressman Rooney has called `` that monstrosity on Thirty-fourth Street '' , the modern cement-and-glass chancery of the Belgians .
Into its chanceries each day pour reports from ministries around the earth and an endless stream of home-office instructions on how to handle Uncle Sam in an infinite variety of contingencies .
Some , like the British and the French , maintain an elaborate system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special areas of the American scene .
Other embassies cable home The New York Times without changing a comma .
The Soviet Embassy is popularly regarded as Russian espionage headquarters .
When Ambassador Mikhail Menshikov took it over in 1957 from Georgi Zaroubin , he made a determined effort to change this idea .
Menshikov hit Washington with a TV announcer's grin and a hearty handclasp .
To everyone's astonishment he seemed no more like the run-of-the-mine Russian ambassador than George Babbitt was like Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov .
Speeches by the Soviet ambassador became the vogue as he obliged rural Maryland Rotarians and National Press Club alike .
In Senator Joseph McCarthy's phrase , it was the most unheard-of thing ever heard of .
A newspaperman who met him at a reception swore that he asked Menshikov : `` What should we call you '' ? ?
And that Menshikov replied : `` Just call me Mike '' .
`` Smilin' Mike '' was the sobriquet Washington gave him .
For a few giddy months that coincided with one of Moscow's smiling moods , he was the sensation of Washington .
At the State Department , hard-bitten Russian experts complained that the Capitol was out of its wits .
The Menshikov interlude ended as larks with the Russians usually end .
Finding peaceful coexistence temporarily unsuitable because of domestic politics , Moscow resumed scowling and `` Smilin' Mike '' dropped quietly out of the press except for an occasional story reporting that he had been stoned somewhere in the Middle West .
The most inscrutable embassies are the Arabs' , and the most inscrutable of the Arabs are the Saudi Arabians .
When King Saud visited Washington , the overwhelming question consuming the press was the size of his family .
The State Department was little help on this , or on much else about Saudi Arabia .
A reporter who consulted a Middle East Information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until the State Department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a brochure published by the Arabian-American Oil Company .
The size of Saud's family was still being debated when the King appeared for his first meeting with Eisenhower .
When Dag Hammarskjold was negotiating the Middle East peace after Israel's 1956 invasion of Egypt , he soon found himself speaking the mysterious phrases of Cairo , a language as anarchic as Casey Stengel's .
The reports of President Nasser's pledges which Hammarskjold was relaying from Cairo to Washington became increasingly incomprehensible to other diplomats , including the Israeli Foreign Minister , Mrs. Golda Meir .
Finally he reported that Nasser was ready to make a concrete commitment in return for Israeli concessions .
A few newer homes have Western flush toilets , but even with running water , they are usually Eastern style .
The next day I visited International Christian College which has developed since the war under the leadership of people who were interned and who know Japan well .
In the afternoon Miss Hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young Mrs. Kodama to see the famous Spring dances of the Geisha dancers .
Mrs. Hosaka is one of the Japanese women one reads about -- beautiful , artistically talented , an artful manager of her big household -- ( four boys and four girls ) , and yet looking like a pampered , gentle Japanese woman .
The dances were as beautiful as anything I have ever seen -- they rival the New York Rockettes for scenery and precision as well as imagination .
Because Don was leaving the next day , I spent the evening with him at Asia Center .
The following morning Mr. Morikawa called for me , and we went to visit schools -- kindergarten , middle-school , elementary school , and high school -- Mr. Yoshimoto's school .
With the loss of the Emperor diety in Japan , the people are left in confusion with no God or moral teachings that have strength .
In the evening the former Oregon State science teachers met for dinner at the New Tokyo Restaurant where I had my first raw fish and found it good .
They suggested several new foods , and usually I found them good , except the sweets , which I think I could learn to like .
After a day at Nikko , Mrs. Kodama put me on the train for Kyoto .
My instructions were that Mr. Nishimo would meet me at the hotel , but instead he and three others were at the station with a very warm welcome .
My hotel rooms on the trip were arranged by Masu and the Japan Travel Bureau and were more elegant than I would have chosen , but it was fun for once to be elegant -- I did explain to the students , however , that this was not my usual style , for their salaries are very small , and it seemed out of place for me to be housed so well .
I think I would have been much disappointed in Japan if I had not seen Kyoto , Nara , and Hiroshima .
It , along with Nara , was untouched by the war -- and is now a beautiful example of the loveliness of prewar Japan .
Here I was accompanied by Mrs. Okamoto ( Fumio's mother ) , her son , Mr. Washizu ( a prospective student with whom I have been corresponding for more than a year ) , and Mr. Nishima , one of the science teachers .
We visited the Okamoto home -- where for the first time I saw the famous tea ceremony .
At 6:00 p.m. we went to the Kyoto Spring dances at the place where these beautiful dances originated .
After a supper of unagi ( rice with eel -- eel which is raised in an ice-cold pond at the foot of Mt. Fuji ) , I returned to my beautiful room to sleep as hard as possible to be ready for another busy day .
We started at 9 a.m. to visit the Kyoto University where Mr. Washizu is attending .
We had tea at Mr. Washizu's home where I learned that he , too , comes from a very wealthy family .
Nara , Osaka , and Hiroshima
Mr. Nishima went with me on the train to Nara .
In Nara I stayed at the hotel where the Prince and Princess had stayed on their honeymoon .
Here Mr. Yoneda met us after a three-hour train trip from the town where he teaches .
Even though we had walked miles in Kyoto that day , we started out again to see Nara at night .
In the evening both of the men went with me on the train 30 miles to Osaka to put me on the train for Hiroshima .
At Osaka , Mr. Yoneda had to leave us to get the train to his home , but Mr. Nishima and I had an hour and a half before train time to see Osaka at night .
One spot in Osaka I shall always remember -- the bridge where we stood to watch the reflections of the elaborate neon signs in the still waters of the river .
I had planned to go to the hotel by taxi and sleep a little , after which Mr. Uno would arrive and pilot me around .
But there he was at the train with an Oregon State pennant in his hand .
I know now why the students insisted that I go to Hiroshima even when I told them I didn't want to .
They knew that I was still grieving over the tragic event , and they felt that if I could see the recovery and the spirit of the people , who hold no grudge , but who also regret Pearl Harbor , I would be happier and would understand better a new Japan .
The teachers of Mr. Uno's school gave me a small gift to thank me for coming .
On arriving in Tokyo later we were met by Masu who took us immediately to her university , the Japanese Women's University .
This day was `` Open House for Parents '' day , and the girls were busy preparing exhibits and arranging tea tables .
It was thrilling to see the effect of an American-trained teacher on Japanese students in a class in Home Planning .
Our Masu is one of the very few architects in Japan who is trying to plan homes around family functions and women's needs .
Many of the features of the homes are the latest modern devices in American homes , but an interesting blend of cultures finds us using Japanese artfulness in our own Western architecture at the same time that the Japanese are adopting Western utility patterns .
At this Women's University we find a monument to a courageous family who believed that Japanese women also should be educated .
Even today there are some doubts about the value of education for Japanese women , but this University continues to grow and to send its students out into the community .
Masu is also teaching in a municipally-sponsored school for Japanese widows in Tokyo .
Her education in the United States , not just in a classroom , but also in an American house with an American housekeeper , stands her in good stead .
After a fine luncheon in the cafeteria , the kitchen of which Masu had planned , Mr. Washizu and I left to meet representatives of the USIS for a visit to the University of Tokyo .
Here again it was vacation time and there were many things I could not see , but I was able to visit with a professor who is famous in Japanese circles and be guided through the grounds by his assistant .
The achievement of the desegregation of certain lunch counters not only by wise action by local community leaders but by voluntary action following consultation between Attorney General Rogers and the heads of certain national chain stores should , of course , be applauded .
The suppositions in the previous illustration might be sufficiently altered by establishing a connection between general company practice and local practice in the South , and by establishing such direct connection between the practice and the economic well-being of stores located in New York and general company policy .
Moreover , prudence alone would indicate that , unless the local customs are already ready to fall when pushed , the results of direct economic action everywhere upon national chain stores will likely be simply to give undue advantage to local and state stores which conform to these customs , leading to greater decentralization and local autonomy within the company , or even ( as the final self-defeat of an unjust application of economic pressure to correct injustice ) to its going out of business in certain sections of the country ( as , for that matter , the Quakers , who once had many meetings in the pre-Civil War South , largely went out of business in that part of the country over the slavery issue , never to recover a large number of southern adherents ) .
In any case , anyone who fails to make significant distinction between primary and secondary applications of economic pressure would in principle already have justified that use of economic boycott as a means which broke out a few years ago or was skillfully organized by White Citizens' Councils in the entire state of Mississippi against every local Philco dealer in that state , in protest against a Philco-sponsored program over a national TV network on which was presented a drama showing , it seemed , a `` high yellow gal '' smooching with a white man .
The need that we not give unqualified approval to any but a limited use of economic pressure directed against the actual doers of injustice is clear also in light of the fact that White Citizens' Councils seem resolved to maintain segregation mainly by the use of these same means and not ordinarily by physical violence .
The end or aim of the action , of course , is also important , especially where it is not alone a matter of changing community customs but of the use of deadly economic power to intimidate a person from stepping forward to claim his legal rights , e.g. , against Negroes who register to vote in Fayette County , Tennessee , at the present moment .
One of the sit-in leaders has said : `` Nobody from the top of Heaven to the bottom of Hell can stop the march to freedom .
R. B. Gregg has written that `` non-violence and good will of the victim act like the lack of physical opposition by the user of physical jiu-jitsu , to cause the attacker to lose his moral balance .
Among Christian groups , the Mennonites have commonly been aware more than others of the fact that the nature of divine charity raises decisively the question of the Christian use of all forms of pressure .
Since the will and word of God are for them concentrated in Christ-like love , it seems clear to them that non-violent resistance is quite another thing .
Without agreeing with every phrase in this statement , we must certainly assert the great difference between Christian love and any form of resistance , and then go on beyond the Mennonite position and affirm that Christian love-in-action must first justify and then determine the moral principles limiting resistance .
In these terms , the `` economic withdrawal '' of the Negroes of Nashville , Tennessee , from trading in the center city , for example , was clearly justified , since these distinctions do not require that only people subjectively guilty be singled out .
An excellent article was published recently in the Journal Of The Church Peace Union by a South African journalist on the inhuman economic conditions of the blacks in South Africa , amounting to virtual slavery , and the economic complicity of both the government and the people of the United States in these conditions .
`` Billions of American dollars , not only from capital investors but also from the pockets of U.S. taxpayers '' , this author states , `` are being poured into South Africa to support a system dedicated to the oppression , the persecution , and the almost diabolical exploitation of 12 million people the color of whose skins happens not to be white '' .
Our leadership in a wide economic boycott of South Africa would be not only in accord , it seems , with the moral conscience of America , not to be denied because we also as a people have widespread injustice in the relations of the races in our own country , but also in accord with our law , U.S. Code Title 19 , Section 1307 , which forbids the importation of goods made by forced or convict labor .
And both in their objectives of non-discrimination and of social progress they have had ranged against them the Southerners who are called Bourbons .
since Bourbon whiskey , though of Kentucky origin , is at least as much favored by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South .
The nature of the opposition between liberals and Bourbons is too little understood in the North .
It is these other differences between North and South -- other , that is , than those which concern discrimination or social welfare -- which I chiefly discuss herein .
A Southerner married to a New Englander , I have lived for many years in a Connecticut commuting town with a high percentage of artists , writers , publicity men , and business executives of egghead tastes .
This is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of liberalism , because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson , who held that the best government was the least government .
When I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and democracy , I find that they fall into two categories : the simpler ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without analysis ; ;
This seems like an attitude favoring a sort of totalitarian bureaucracy which , under a President of the same stamp , would try to coerce an uncooperative Congress or Supreme Court .
I am concerned here , however , with the Northern liberal's attitude toward the South .
Time's editor , Thomas Griffith , in his book , The Waist-High Culture , wrote : `` most of what was different about it ( the Deep South ) I found myself unsympathetic to .
I do not think that my experience would be typical for Southerners living in the North .
In fact it has caused us to give serious thought to moving our residence south , because it is not easy for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards down .
Accounts have been published of Northern liberals in the South up against segregationist prejudice , especially in state-supported universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority view .
But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected to embarrassment or provocation by Yankee-hatred displayed in social gatherings .
My definition of this much abused adjective is that a reconstructed rebel is one who is glad that the North won the War .
Prior to 1954 I imagine that a majority of Southerners would have voted against the Confederacy .
Since the Supreme Court's decision of that year this is more doubtful ; ;
and if a poll had been taken immediately following the dispatch of troops to Little Rock I believe the majority would have been for the Old South .
Probably a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain unreconstructed than elsewhere , with Georgia , North Carolina , and Alabama following along after them .
Old attitudes are held more tenaciously in the Tidewater than the Piedmont ; ;
so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
The long-settled areas of states like Virginia and South Carolina developed the ante-bellum culture to its richest flowering , and there the memory is more precious , and the consciousness of loss the greater .
Also , we should not even to-day discount the fact that a region such as the coastal lowlands centering on Charleston had closer ties with England and the West Indies than with the North even after independence .
In certain respects defeat increased the persistent Anglophilia of the Old South .
And no doubt many people in states like the Carolinas and Georgia , which were among the most Tory in sentiment in the eighteenth century , bitterly regretted the revolt against the Crown .
But apart from racial problems , the old unreconstructed South -- to use the moderate words favored by Mr. Thomas Griffith -- finds itself unsympathetic to most of what is different about the civilization of the North .
And therein , I feel , many Northerners delude themselves about the South .
Or else the North really believes that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come around to realizing the errors of their past , and are now at heart sharers of the American Dream , like everybody else .
In every war of the United States since the Civil War the South was more belligerent than the rest of the country .
So instead of being tests of the South's loyalty , the Spanish War , the two World Wars , and the Korean War all served to overcome old grievances and cement reunion .
And there is no section of the nation more ardent than the South in the cold war against Communism .
Had the situation been reversed , had , for instance , England been the enemy in 1898 because of issues of concern chiefly to New England , there is little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain .
The Bourbon economic philosophy , moreover , is not very different from that of Northern conservatives .
They believe that if the South had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that of modern America .
As it is , they consider that the North is now reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism , that in spite of its high standard of living the `` American way '' has been proved inferior to the English and Scandinavian ways , although they disapprove of the socialistic features of the latter .
The South's antipathy to Northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners , harsh accents , lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy and the use of leisure .
In the past , the duties of the state , as Sir Henry Maine noted long ago , were only two in number : internal order and external security .
It became the sole `` subject '' of `` international law '' ( a term which , it is pertinent to remember , was coined by Bentham ) , a body of legal principle which by and large was made up of what Western nations could do in the world arena .
Thus , to cite but one example , the Pax Britannica of the nineteenth century , whether with the British navy ruling the seas or with the City of London ruling world finance , was strictly national in motivation , however much other nations ( e.g. , the United States ) may have incidentally benefited .
For lawyers , reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences , there has been a special fascination since then in the role played by the Supreme Court in that transformation -- the manner in which its decisions altered in `` the switch in time that saved nine '' , President Roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious `` Court-packing plan '' , the imprimatur of judicial approval that was finally placed upon social legislation .
Ratified in the Republican Party victory in 1952 , the Positive State is now evidenced by political campaigns being waged not on whether but on how much social legislation there should be .
The general acceptance of the idea of governmental ( i.e. , societal ) responsibility for the economic well-being of the American people is surely one of the two most significant watersheds in American constitutional history .
The other , of course , was the Civil War , the conflict which a century ago insured national unity over fragmentation .
That guiding principle of the Hoover Administration fell to the siege guns of the New Deal ; ;
less than a score of years later Congress enacted the Employment Act of 1946 , by which the national government assumed the responsibility of taking action to insure conditions of maximum employment .
In 1961 the first important legislative victory of the Kennedy Administration came when the principle of national responsibility for local economic distress won out over a `` state's-responsibility '' proposal -- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted with manpower surplus .
Internal national responsibility is a societal response to the impact of the Industrial Revolution .
National responsibility for individual welfare is a concept not limited to the United States or even to the Western nations .
A measure of its widespread acceptance may be derived from a statement of the International Congress of Jurists in 1959 .
Meeting in New Delhi under the auspices of the International Commission of Jurists , a body of lawyers from the free world , the Congress redefined and expanded the traditional Rule of Law to include affirmative governmental duties .
The Rule of Law , historically a principle according everyone his `` day in court '' before an impartial tribunal , was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of government to promote individual welfare .
Recognizing that the Rule of Law is `` a dynamic concept which should be employed not only to safeguard the civil and political rights of the individual in a free society '' , the Congress asserted that it also included the responsibility `` to establish social , economic , educational and cultural conditions under which his legitimate aspirations and dignity may be realized '' .
The breakup of the Holy Roman Empire and the downfall of feudalism led , not more than two centuries ago , to the surge of nationalism .
( Since the time-span of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence of the United States as an independent entity , it is perhaps natural for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest form of order , something permanent and unchanging .
Jean Bodin , writing in the sixteenth century , may have been the seminal thinker , but it was the vastly influential John Austin who set out the main lines of the concept as now understood .
I have just asked these questions in the Pentagon , in the White House , in offices of key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl for months underwater , with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain Polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as `` Sherwood Forest '' .
I asked the same questions inside the launch-control rooms of an Atlas missile base in Wyoming , where officers who wear sidearms are manning the `` commit buttons '' that could start a war -- accidentally or by design -- and in the command centers where other pistol-packing men could give orders to push such buttons .
As an Air Force psychiatrist put it : `` You can't have dry runs on this one '' .
Already accidental war is a silent guest at the discussions within the Kennedy Administration about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions of national security .
Unanimously they believe that the world would become a safer place if more of us -- and more Russians and Communist Chinese , too -- thought about accidental war .
The first systematic thinking about this Pandora's box within Pandora's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle , a frail , meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist .
He was , and is , with the RAND Corporation , a nonprofit pool of thinkers financed by the U.S. Air Force .
His investigations made him the Paul Revere of accidental war , and safety procedures were enormously increased .
In recent weeks , as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal by the Kennedy Administration , basic United States strategy has been modified -- and large new sums allocated -- to meet the accidental-war danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible .
The chain starts at BMEWS ( Ballistic Missile Early Warning System ) in Thule , Greenland .
Its radar screens would register Soviet missiles shortly after they are launched against the United States .
BMEWS intelligence is simultaneously flashed to NORAD ( North American Air Defense Command ) in Colorado Springs , Colorado , for interpretation ; ;
to the SAC command and control post , forty-five feet below the ground at Offutt Air Force Base , near Omaha , Nebraska ; ;
to the Joint War Room of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Pentagon and to the President .
For last-ditch emergencies SAC has alternate command posts on KC-135 jet tankers .
A system of `` gold '' -- actually yellow -- phones connects him with the offices and action stations of the Secretary of Defense , the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the SAC commander and other key men .
Officers who participate in the continual practice drills assured me that the President's decision could be made and announced on the gold circuit within minutes after the first flash from Aj .
They include the Navy's Atlantic Command at Norfolk , Virginia , which is in contact with the Polaris subs ; ;
Air Force forward headquarters in Europe and in the Pacific , which control tactical fighters on ships and land bases ; ;
Let us look in on one of these nerve centers -- SAC at Omaha -- and see what must still happen before a wing of B-52 bombers could drop their Aj .
The key man almost certainly would be Col. William W. Wisman , SAC's senior controller .
And Bill Wisman , forty-three , a farmer's son from Beallsville , Ohio , is a quiet but impressive man .
In emergencies the SAC commander , Gen. Thomas Power , or his deputies and their staff would occupy a balcony that stretches across the length of the room above Wisman and his staff .
At General Power's seat in the balcony there is also a gold phone .
Now let us imagine a wing of B-52's , on alert near their `` positive control ( or fail-safe ) points '' , the spots on the map , many miles from Soviet territory , beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific orders to proceed to their targets .
As Wisman put it , `` They have separate pieces of the pie , and we have the whole pie .
At any rate , three men out of a six-man B-52 crew are required to copy down Wisman's go-to-war message .
The malignancy of such a landscape has been beautifully described by the Australian Charles Bean .
Finally , however , the arrangements were made and we drove out into the bush in a Land Rover .
It took me a moment to realize what was odd about that panel : there was a gimbaled compass welded to it , which rocked gently back and forth as the Land Rover bounced about .
`` Once I get out on the flat I do .
We drove close to the boulder , stopped the Land Rover , and walked over toward the family .
The Australian and I both were wearing insect repellent and were not badly bothered by insects , but my eyes watered as we stood watching the aborigine .
The Australian stopped trying to talk a pidgin I could understand , and spoke strange words from deep in his chest .
At the heart of all of this was the square , which one such traveler declared to be `` as spacious , as pleasant and aromatick a Market as any in the Universe '' .
In time Isfahan came to be known as `` half the world '' , Isfahan nisf-i-jahan .
Isfahan became more of a legend than a place , and now it is for many people simply a name to which they attach their notions of old Persia and sometimes of the East .
The promenade , for example , continues to take place on the Chahar Bagh , a mile-long garden of plane and poplar trees that now serves as the city's principal street .
On Fridays , the day when many Persians relax with poetry , talk , and a samovar , people do not , it is true , stream into Chehel Sotun -- a pavilion and garden built by Shah Abbas 2 , in the seventeenth century -- but they do retire into hundreds of pavilions throughout the city and up the river valley , which are smaller , more humble copies of the former .
Those three other great activities of the Persians , the bath , the teahouse , and the zur khaneh ( the latter a kind of club in which a leader and a group of men in an octagonal pit move through a rite of calisthenics , dance , chanted poetry , and music ) , do not take place in buildings to which entrance tickets are sold , but some of them occupy splendid examples of Persian domestic architecture : long , domed , chalk-white rooms with daises of turquoise tile , their end walls cut through to the orchards and the sky by open arches .
I should like , by the way , to make it clear that I am not using the word `` Persians '' carelessly .
Nowhere in Isfahan is this rich aesthetic life of the Persians shown so well as during the promenade at the Khaju bridge .
It was to provide a safe and spacious crossing for these caravans , and also to make a pleasance for the city , that Shah Abbas 2 , in about 1657 built , of sun-baked brick , tile , and stone , the present bridge .
Above , in the tiled prosceniums of the alcoves , boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi , while at the very bottom , in the vaults , the toughs and blades of the city hoot and bang their drums , drink arak , play dice , and dance .
It is perhaps difficult to conceive , but imagine that tonight on London bridge the Teddy boys of the East End will gather to sing Marlowe , Herrick , Shakespeare , and perhaps some lyrics of their own .
for example , the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk poem : `` They brought me news that Spring is in the plains And Ahmad's blood the crimson tulip stains ; ;
Or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet : `` Know ye , fair folk who dwell on earth Or shall hereafter come to birth , That here , with dust upon his eyes , Iraj , the sweet-tongued singer , lies .
Die Frist ist um , und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr , the Maestro quoted The Flying Dutchman , as he told of his career and wanderings , explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred in his life several times .
The music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra , William Steinberg , has molded his group into a prominent musical organization , which is his life .
When he added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958 , he conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities .
This schedule became too strenuous , even for the energetic and conscientious Mr. Steinberg .
His London contract was rescinded , and now , he explains cheerfully , as a bright smile lightens his intense , mobile face , `` I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts '' ! !
Our meeting took place in May , 1961 , during one of the Maestro's stop-overs in New York , before he left for Europe .
As we began to converse in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel , his restlessness and sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent .
When he started school at the age of five-and-a-half , he could not understand why the alphabet begins with the letter A , instead of C , as in the scale .
Because , like many other children , he intensely disliked practicing Czerny Etudes , he composed his own studies .
Soon he was playing in the Cologne Municipal Orchestra , and during World War 1 , , when musicians were scarce , he joined the opera orchestra as well .
he became Otto Klemperer's personal assistant at the Cologne Opera , and a year later was promoted to the position of regular conductor .
Five years were spent with the Cologne Opera , after which he was called to Prague by Alexander von Zemlinsky , teacher of Arnold Schonberg and Erich Korngold .
In 1927 he succeeded Zemlinsky as opera director of the German Theater at Prague .
During his tenure he also fulfilled guest engagements at the Berlin State Opera .
Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera , where he remained until he lost this position in 1933 through the rise of the Hitler regime .
He had presented the first German performances of Puccini's Manon Lescaut and De Falla's La Vida Breve .
The Frankfurt years were particularly noteworthy for his performance of Berg's Wozzek soon after the Berlin premiere under Erich Kleiber , and the world premiere of Schonberg's Von heute auf morgen .
At the outset of his career , Steinberg had dedicated himself to the advancement of contemporary music by vowing to do a Schonberg work every year .
In Frankfurt , too , he directed the Museum and Opera House concerts which , in addition to the standard repertoire , featured novelties like Erdmann's Piano Concerto and Mahler's Sixth Symphony .
Because of the political upheaval in Germany in the 1930's , Steinberg was forced to restrict his activities to the Jewish community .
Through the Frankfurt Jewish Kulturbund he began to give sonata recitals in synagogues , with Cellist Emanuel Feuermann .
As more and more Jewish musicians lost their jobs with professional organizations Steinberg united them into the Frankfurt Kulturbund Orchestra , which also gave guest performances in other German cities .
In 1936 he accepted the leadership of the Berlin Kulturbund .
In the fall of that year the best musicians of the Berlin and Frankfurt Kulturbund orchestras joined under the combined efforts of Bronislaw Hubermann and Steinberg to become the Palestine Orchestra -- now known as the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra -- with Steinberg as founder-conductor .
In 1938 , at the insistence of Arturo Toscanini , Steinberg left Germany for the United States , by way of Switzerland .
After he had spent the first three years in New York as associate conductor , at Toscanini's invitation , of the NBC Orchestra , he made numerous guest appearances throughout the United States and Latin America .
In 1945 he became conductor of the Buffalo Philharmonic .
Seven years later he was asked to become director of the Pittsburgh Symphony .
Since 1944 he has also conducted regularly at the San Francisco Opera , where he made his debut with a memorable performance of Verdi's Falstaff .
In recent years he has traveled widely in Europe , conducting in Italy , France , Austria , and Switzerland .
He returned to Germany for the first time in 1953 , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
First of all , to Italy for a short vacation -- Forte Dei Marmi , a place he loves .
Since it is not far from Viareggio , he will visit Puccini's house , as he never fails to do , to pay his respects to the memory of the composer of La Boheme , which he considers one of Puccini's masterpieces .
Steinberg spoke with warmth and enthusiasm about Italy : `` Rome is my second home .
He will conduct two concerts at the Accademia Di Santa Cecilia , as well as concerts in Munich and Cologne .
`` Then I return to the United States for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia '' , he added .
There will be premieres of new works , made possible through Ford Foundation commissions : Carlisle Floyd's Mystery , with Phyllis Curtin as soprano soloist .
Other world premieres will be Gardner Read's Third Symphony and Burle Marx's Samba Concertante .
`` And next year we will do -- also a Ford commission -- a piano concerto by Elliott Carter , with Jacob Lateiner as soloist .
Of course , I shall conduct Mahler and Bruckner works in the coming season , as usual .
We'll play Bruckner's Fifth Symphony in the original version , and Mahler's Seventh -- the least accessible , known , and played of Mahler's works .
My Pittsburghers have become real addicts to Mahler and Bruckner '' .
He added that he also stresses the works of these favorite masters on tour , especially Mahler's First and Fourth symphonies , and Das Lied Von der Erde , and Bruckner's Sixth -- which is rarely played -- and Seventh .
He recalled that in California after a critic had attacked him for `` still trying to sell Bruckner to the Americans '' , the public's response at the next concert was a standing ovation .
`` Now that Bruno Walter is virtually in retirement and my dear friend Dimitri Mitropoulos is no longer with us , I am probably the only one -- with the possible exception of Leonard Bernstein -- who has this special affinity for and champions the works of Bruckner and Mahler '' .
But I usually stick to the old phrase : ' Ich habe ein Amt , aber keine Meinung ( I hold an office , but I do not feel entitled to have an opinion ) .
He had just paid a brief visit to the Frick Collection to admire his favorite paintings by Rembrandt and Franz Hals .
He was not enthusiastic over the newly acquired Claude Lorrain , but reminisced with pleasure over a Poussin exhibit he had been able to see in Paris a year ago .
Like his late colleague , Mitropoulos , he reads mystery stories , in particular Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
He cited Heine and Stendhal as favorites in literature .
At the moment he was excited about his son's having received the Prix De Rome in archaeology and was looking forward to being present this summer at the excavation of an Etruscan tomb .
`` Is the attitude of German youth comparable to that of `` the angry young men ' of England '' ? ?
Was the topic for a round-table discussion at the Bayerische Rundfunk in Munich .
Since attack serves to stimulate interest in broadcasts , I added to my opening statement a sentence in which I claimed that German youth seemed to lack the enthusiasm which is a necessary ingredient of anger , and might be classified as uninterested and bored rather than angry .
When I mentioned that for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount , the young people looked at me doubtingly .
Once again , as in the days of the Founding Fathers , America faces a stern test .
That test , as President Kennedy forthrightly depicted it in his State of the Union message , will determine `` whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure '' .
Incapable of self-delusion , the Founding Fathers found the crisis of their time to be equally grave , and yet they had confidence that America would surmount it and that a republic of free peoples would prosper and serve as an example to a world aching for liberty .
Seven Founders -- George Washington , Benjamin Franklin , John Adams , Thomas Jefferson , Alexander Hamilton , James Madison and John Jay -- determined the destinies of the new nation .
As Madison commented to Jefferson in 1789 , `` We are in a wilderness without a single footstep to guide us .
They thought of themselves , to use Jefferson's words , as `` the Argonauts '' who had lived in `` the Heroic Age '' .
Strong men with strong opinions , frank to the point of being refreshingly indiscreet , the Founding Seven were essentially congenial minds , and their agreements with each other were more consequential than their differences .
Eldest of the seven , Benjamin Franklin , a New Englander transplanted to Philadelphia , wrote the most dazzling success story in our history .
Author of the Albany Plan Of Union , which , had it been adopted , might have avoided the Revolution , he fought the colonists' front-line battles in London , negotiated the treaty of alliance with France and the peace that ended the war , headed the state government of Pennsylvania , and exercised an important moderating influence at the Federal Convention .
On a military mission for his native Virginia the youthful George Washington touched off the French and Indian War , then guarded his colony's frontier as head of its militia .
Commanding the Continental Army for six long years of the Revolution , he was the indispensable factor in the ultimate victory .
Retiring to his beloved Mount Vernon , he returned to preside over the Federal Convention , and was the only man in history to be unanimously elected President .
During his two terms the Constitution was tested and found workable , strong national policies were inaugurated , and the traditions and powers of the Presidential office firmly fixed .
John Adams fashioned much of pre-Revolutionary radical ideology , wrote the constitution of his home state of Massachusetts , negotiated , with Franklin and Jay , the peace with Britain and served as our first Vice President and our second President .
His political opponent and lifetime friend , Thomas Jefferson , achieved immortality through his authorship of the Declaration of Independence , but equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted in his native Virginia , his role as father of our territorial system , and his acquisition of the Louisiana Territory during his first term as President .
During the greater part of Jefferson's career he enjoyed the close collaboration of a fellow Virginian , James Madison , eight years his junior .
The active sponsor of Jefferson's measure for religious liberty in Virginia , Madison played the most influential single role in the drafting of the Constitution and in securing its ratification in Virginia , founded the first political party in American history , and , as Jefferson's Secretary of State and his successor in the Presidency , guided the nation through the troubled years of our second war with Britain .
If Franklin was an authentic genius , then Alexander Hamilton , with his exceptional precocity , consuming energy , and high ambition , was a political prodigy .
Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York over from opposition to the Constitution to ratification almost single-handedly .
His collaboration with Washington , begun when he was the general's aide during the Revolution , was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury .
Less dazzling than Hamilton , less eloquent than Jefferson , John Jay commands an equally high rank among the Founding Fathers .
He served as president of the Continental Congress .
He played the leading role in negotiating the treaty with Great Britain that ended the Revolution , and directed America's foreign affairs throughout the Confederation period .
As first Chief Justice , his strong nationalist opinions anticipated John Marshall .
He ended his public career as a two-term governor of New York .
These Seven Founders constituted an intellectual and social elite , the most respectable and disinterested leadership any revolution ever confessed .
Their social status was achieved in some cases by birth , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay ; ;
in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton's case , by an influential marriage .
As different physically as the tall , angular Jefferson was from the chubby , rotund Adams , the seven were striking individualists .
John Adams dismissed John Dickinson , who voted against the Declaration of Independence , as `` a certain great fortune and piddling genius '' .
Washington castigated his critic , General Conway , as being capable of `` all the meanness of intrigue to gratify the absurd resentment of disappointed vanity '' .
And Hamilton , who felt it `` a religious duty '' to oppose Aaron Burr's political ambitions , would have been a better actuarial risk had he shown more literary restraint .
The Seven Founders were completely dedicated to the public service .
He served as Commander in Chief during the Revolution without compensation .
John Adams took to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor , Jeremiah Gridley , to `` pursue the study of the law , rather than the gain of it '' .
In taking account of seventeen years of law practice , Adams concluded that `` no lawyer in America ever did so much business as I did '' and `` for so little profit '' .
When the Revolution broke out , he , along with Jefferson and Jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice .
Hamilton , poorest of the seven , gave up a brilliant law practice to enter Washington's Cabinet .
`` If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars '' , he wrote one friend in 1791 when he was Secretary of the Treasury .
Talleyrand passed his New York law office one night on the way to a party .
John Adams asserted in the Continental Congress' Declaration of Rights that the demands of the colonies were in accordance with their charters , the British Constitution and the common law , and Jefferson appealed in the Declaration of Independence `` to the tribunal of the world '' for support of a revolution justified by `` the laws of nature and of nature's God '' .
They fought hard , but they were forgiving to former foes , and sought to prevent vindictive legislatures from confiscating Tory property in violation of the Treaty of 1783 .
This sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified in an exchange of letters between John Jay and a Tory refugee , Peter Van Schaack .
Jay had participated in the decision that exiled his old friend Van Schaack .
Yet when , at war's end , the ex-Tory made the first move to resume correspondence , Jay wrote him from Paris , where he was negotiating the peace settlement :
`` As an independent American I considered all who were not for us , and you amongst the rest , as against us , yet be assured that John Jay never ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack '' .
The latter in turn assured him that `` were I arraigned at the bar , and you my judge , I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause '' .
All sought the fruition of that nationalism in a Federal Government with substantial powers .
Save Jefferson , all participated in the framing or ratification of the Federal Constitution .
Historians have traditionally regarded the great debates of the Seventeen Nineties as polarizing the issues of centralized vs. limited government , with Hamilton and the nationalists supporting the former and Jefferson and Madison upholding the latter position .
The state's rights position was formulated by Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians .
In purchasing Louisiana , Jefferson had to adopt Hamilton's broad construction of the Constitution , and so did Madison in advocating the rechartering of Hamilton's bank , which he had so strenuously opposed at its inception , and in adopting a Hamiltonian protective tariff .
Indeed , the old Jeffersonians were far more atune to the Hamilton-oriented Whigs than they were to the Jacksonian Democrats .
When , in 1832 , the South Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve , they elicited no encouragement from that senior statesman .
In his political testament , `` Advice To My Country '' , penned just before his death , Madison expressed the wish `` that the Union of the States be cherished and perpetuated .
Long live Tobacco Road .
Nostalgic Yankee readers of Erskine Caldwell are today informed by proud Georgians that Tobacco Road is buried beneath a four-lane super highway , over which travel each day suburbanite businessmen more concerned with the Dow-Jones average than with the cotton crop .
Thus we are compelled to face the urbanization of the South -- an urbanization which , despite its dramatic and overwhelming effects upon the Southern culture , has been utterly ignored by the bulk of Southern writers .
Indeed , it seems that only in today's Southern fiction does Tobacco Road , with all the traditional trimmings of sowbelly and cornbread and mint juleps , continue to live -- but only as a weary , overexploited phantom .
according to many critics , in fact , the South has led the North in literature since the Civil War , both quantitatively and qualitatively .
Such writers as William Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren have led the field of somewhat less important writers in a sort of post-bellum renaissance .
There is a New South emerging , a South losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society with the rapidity of an avalanche -- especially within recent decades .
As the New South snowballs toward further urbanization , it becomes more and more homogeneous with the North -- a tendency which Willard Thorp terms `` Yankeefication '' , as evidenced in such cities as Charlotte , Birmingham , and Houston .
It is said that , even at the present stage of Southern urbanization , such a city as Atlanta is not distinctly unlike Columbus or Trenton .
Undoubtedly even the old Southern stalwart Richmond has felt the new wind : William Styron mentions in his latest novel an avenue named for Bankhead McGruder , a Civil War general , now renamed , in typical California fashion , `` Buena Vista Terrace '' .
As for progress , the `` backward South '' can boast of Baton Rouge , which increased its population between 1940 and 1950 by two hundred and sixty-two percent , to 126,000 , the second largest growth of the period for all cities over 25,000 .
The field , then , is ripe for new Southerners to step to the fore and write of this twentieth-century phenomenon , the Southern Yankeefication : the new urban economy , the city-dweller , the pains of transition , the labor problems ; ;
Truman Capote is still reveling in Southern Gothicism , exaggerating the old Southern legends into something beautiful and grotesque , but as unreal as -- or even more unreal than -- yesterday .
William Styron , while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance , insists he is not to be classified as a Southern writer and yet includes traditional Southern concepts in everything he publishes .
Even the great god Faulkner , the South's one probable contender for literary immortality , has little concerned himself with these matters ; ;
An example of the changes which have crept over the Southern region may be seen in the Southern Negro's quest for a position in the white-dominated society , a problem that has been reflected in regional fiction especially since 1865 .
Today the Negro must discover his role in an industrialized South , which indicates that the racial aspect of the Southern dilemma hasn't changed radically , but rather has gradually come to be reflected in this new context , this new coat of paint .
Today's evidence , such as the fact that only three Southern states ( South Carolina , Alabama and Mississippi ) still openly defy integration , would have astounded many of yesterday's Southerners into speechlessness .
A new South is emerging after the post-bellum years of hesitation , uncertainty , and lack of action from the Negro in defining his new role in the amorphously defined socio-political organizations of the white man .
The modern Negro has not made a decisive debut into Southern fiction .
It is clear that , while most writers enjoy picturing the Negro as a woolly-headed , humble old agrarian who mutters `` yassuhs '' and `` sho' nufs '' with blissful deference to his white employer ( or , in Old South terms , `` massuh '' ) , this stereotype is doomed to become in reality as obsolete as Caldwell's Lester .
While there may still be many Faulknerian Lucas Beauchamps scattered through the rural South , such men appear to be a vanishing breed .
Presenting an individualized Negro character , it would seem , is one of the most difficult assignments a Southern writer could tackle ; ;
Just as the Negro situation points up the gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life , it also points up the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature .
recently only Keith Wheeler's novel , Peaceable Lane , has openly faced the problem .
All but the most rabid of Confederate flag wavers admit that the Old Southern tradition is defunct in actuality and sigh that its passing was accompanied by the disappearance of many genteel and aristocratic traditions of the reputedly languid ante-bellum way of life .
Many earlier writers , mourning the demise of the old order , tended to romanticize and exaggerate this `` gracious Old South '' imagery , creating such lasting impressions as Margaret Mitchell's `` Tara '' Plantation .
As John T. Westbrook says in his article , `` Twilight Of Southern Regionalism '' ( Southwest Review , Winter 1957 ) : `` The miasmal mausoleum where an Old South , already too minutely autopsied in prose and poetry , should be left to rest in peace , forever dead and ( let us fervently hope ) forever done with '' .
Westbrook further bemoans the Southern writers' creation of an unreal image of their homeland , which is too readily assimilated by both foreign readers and visiting Yankees : `` Our northerner is suspicious of all this crass evidence ( of urbanization ) presented to his senses .
He is too deeply steeped in William Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren .
The fumes of progress are in his nose and the bright steel of industry towers before his eyes , but his heart is away in Yoknapatawpha County with razorback hogs and night riders .
Obviously , such a Northern tourist's purpose is somewhat akin to a child's experience with Disneyland : he wants to see a world of make-believe .
In the meantime , while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee , Southern writers have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region's progress .
Willard Thorp , in his new book , American Writing In The Twentieth Century , observes , quite validly it seems : `` Certain subjects are conspicuously absent or have been only lightly touched .
No Southern novelist has done for Atlanta or Birmingham what Herrick , Dreiser , and Farrell did for Chicago or Dos Passos did for New York .
Not a single Southern author , major or minor , has made the urban problems of an urban South his primary source material .
As his disciples boast , even though his emphasis is elsewhere , Faulkner does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly , as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes families .
Even two decades ago in Go Down , Moses Faulkner was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the curse of slavery erased from its soil .
Faulkner traces , in his vast and overpowering saga of Yoknapatawpha County , the gradual changes which seep into the South , building layer upon layer of minute , subtle innovation which eventually tend largely to hide the Old Way .
Thus Faulkner reminds us , and wisely , that the `` new '' South has gradually evolved out of the Old South , and consequently its agrarian roots persist .
Yet he presents a realm of source material which may well serve other writers if not himself : the problems with which a New South must grapple in groping through a blind adolescence into the maturity of urbanization .
But Robert Rauschenberg , the neo-dadaist artist , has collaborated with several of them .
He has designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white for Mr. Cunningham's Summerspace , so that dancers and background merge into a shimmering unity .
For Mr. Taylor's Images And Reflections she made some diaphanous tents that alternately hide and reveal the performer , and a girl's cape lined with grass .
To raise the dancer out of his personal , pedestrian self , Mr. Nikolais has experimented with relating him to a larger , environmental orbit .
An approach that has appealed to some choreographers is reminiscent of Charles Olson's statement of the process of projective verse : `` one perception must immediately and directly lead to a further perception '' .
The unit of form is determined subjectively : `` the Heart , by the way of the Breath , to the Line '' .
But a tossing of coins , with perhaps the added safeguard of reference to the oracles of the I Ching , the Chinese Book Of Changes , dictates the handling of the chosen materials .
According to Katherine Litz , `` the becoming , the process of realization , is the dance '' .
The approach to the depiction of the experience of creation may be analytic , as it is for Miss Litz , or spontaneous , as it is for Merle Marsicano .
Looking back , Miss Marsicano feels that her ideas may have been influenced by those of Jackson Pollock .
This became a dance called Prelude To Flight .
Though he is also concerned with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity , Merce Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim .
The sequence is determined by chance , and Mr. Cunningham makes use of any one of several chance devices .
The North and the South were in greater agreement on sovereignty , through all their dispute about it , than were the Founding Fathers .
The truth in their conflicting concepts was expounded by statesmen of the calibre of Webster and Calhoun , and defended in the end by leaders of the nobility of Lincoln and Lee .
Repeated efforts -- beginning with the Missouri Compromise of 1821 -- were made by such master moderates as Clay and Douglas to resolve the difference peacefully by compromise , rather than clear thought and timely action .
The present issue in Atlantica -- whether to transform an alliance of sovereign nations into a federal union of sovereign citizens -- resembles the American one of 1787-89 rather than the one that was resolved by Civil War .
And so I would only touch upon it now ( much as I have long wanted to write a book about it ) .
The difference came down to this : The Southern States insisted that the United States was , in last analysis , what its name implied -- a Union of States .
This right of the State , its upholders contended , was essential to maintain the federal balance and protect the liberty of the people from the danger of centralizing power in the Union government .
The champions of the Union maintained that the Constitution had formed , fundamentally , the united people of America , that it was a compact among sovereign citizens rather than states , and that therefore the states had no right to secede , though the citizens could .
Writing to Speed on August 24 , 1855 , Lincoln made the latter point clear .
When the Know-nothings get control , it will read , All men are created equal except Negroes and foreigners and Catholics .
When it comes to this , I shall prefer emigrating to some country where they make no pretence of loving liberty -- to Russia , for instance , where despotism can be taken pure , without the base alloy of hypocrisy '' ( His emphasis )
When the Southern States exercised their `` right to secede '' , they formed what they officially styled `` The Confederate States of America '' .
Dictionaries , as we have seen , still cite this government , along with the Articles of Confederation of 1781 , as an example of a confederacy .
The fact is that the Southern Confederacy differed from the earlier one almost as much as the Federal Constitution did .
The Confederate Constitution copied much of the Federal Constitution verbatim , and most of the rest in substance .
It operated on , by and for the people individually just as did the Federal Constitution .
Many believe -- and understandably -- that the great difference between the Constitution of the Southern Confederacy and the Federal Constitution was that the former recognized the right of each state to secede .
But though each of its members had asserted this right against the Union , the final Constitution which the Confederacy signed on March 11 -- nearly a month before hostilities began -- included no explicit provision authorizing a state to secede .
Their President , Jefferson Davis , interpreted their Constitution to mean that it `` admits of no coerced association '' , but this remained so doubtful that `` there were frequent demands that the right to secede be put into the Constitution '' .
The Constitution of the Southern `` Confederation '' differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects : It openly , defiantly , recognized slavery -- an institution which the Southerners of 1787 , even though they continued it , found so impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning the word in the Federal Constitution .
They recognized that slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest , and that to recognize it explicitly in their Constitution would be in explosive contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in the Declaration of 1776 that `` all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights , that among them are life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness .
'' The other important difference between the two Constitutions was that the President of the Confederacy held office for six ( instead of four ) years , and was limited to one term .
The only important differences from that standpoint , between the two Constitutions , lies in their Preambles .
Here are the two Preambles : Federal Constitution , 1789
`` we the People of the United States , in order to form a more perfect Union , establish Justice , insure domestic Tranquility , provide for the common Defence , promote the general Welfare , and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity , do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America '' .
`` We the people of the Confederate States , each state acting in its sovereign and independent character , in order to form a permanent federal government , establish justice , insure domestic tranquility , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity -- invoking the favor and the guidance of Almighty God -- do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Confederate States of America '' .
But though the Southern States , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , narrowed the difference to this fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede , the fact remained that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states .
If the Union conceded this to them , the same right must be conceded to each remaining state whenever it saw fit to secede : This would destroy the federal balance between it and the states , and in the end sacrifice to the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained by their Union .
Lincoln saw that the act of secession made the issue for the Union a vital one : Whether it was a Union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' .
Though his election was interpreted by many Southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal balance in favor of the Union , Lincoln himself proposed no such change in the rights the Constitution gave the states .
After the war began , he long refused to permit emancipation of the slaves by Union action even in the Border States that stayed with the Union .
He issued his Emancipation Proclamation only when he felt that necessity left him no other way to save the Union .
In his Message of December 2 , 1862 , he put his purpose and his policy in these words -- which I would call the Lincoln Law of Liberty-and-Union : `` In giving freedom to the slave , we assure freedom to the free '' .
What Lincoln could not concede was that the states rather than the people were sovereign in the Union .
Out of this ordeal the citizen emerged , in the South as in the North , as America's true sovereign , in `` a new birth of freedom '' , as Lincoln promised .
He understood that both sides were at fault , and he reached the height of saying so explicitly in his Second Inaugural .
To my knowledge , Lincoln remains the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth .
It is much less difficult now than in Lincoln's day to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had delegated to the States and to their Union .
The 140,414 Americans who gave `` the last full measure of devotion '' to prevent disunion , preserved individual freedom in the United States from the dangers of anarchy , inherent in confederations , which throughout history have proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign states , and to the liberties of their people .
But the fact that 70,524 other Americans gave the same measure of devotion to an opposing concept served Liberty-and-Union in other essential ways .
Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing the Southerners their right to have slaves -- a right that was even less compatible with the sovereignty of man .
Yet though the Southern States lost the worst errors in their case , they did not lose the truth they fought for .
The lives so many of them gave , to forestall what they believed would be a fatal encroachment by the Union on the powers reserved to their states have continued ever since to safeguard all Americans against freedom's other foe .
The useful suggestion of Professor David Hawkins which considers culture as a third stage in biological evolution fits quite beautifully then with our suggestion that science has provided us with a rather successful technique for building protective artificial environments .
Social invention did not have to await social theory any more than use of the warmth of a fire had to await Lavoisier or the buoyant protection of a boat the formulations of Archimedes .
There is a haunting resemblance between the notion of cause in Copernicus and in Freud .
Lucretius has remarked : `` The reason why all Mortals are so gripped by fear is that they see all sorts of things happening in the earth and sky with no discernable cause , and these they attribute to the will of God '' .
This and other fears of the solar system have disappeared gradually , first , with the Ptolemaic system and its built-in concept of periodicity and then , more firmly , with the Newtonian innovation of an universal force that could account quantitatively for both terrestial and celestial motions .
A meteor could fall on San Francisco .
I believe that what I do has some effect on his actions and I have learned , in a way , to commune with drunks , but certainly my actions seem to resemble more nearly the performance of a rain dance than the carrying out of an experiment in physics .
His letter had suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
My wish to meet Samuel Beckett had been prompted by simple curiosity and interest in his work .
Even so astute a commentator as Harold Clurman of The Nation has said that `` Waiting For Godot '' is `` the concentrate of the contemporary European mood of despair '' .
But to me Beckett's writing had seemed permeated with love for human beings and with a kind of humor that I could reconcile neither with despair nor with nihilism .
My curiosity was sharpened a day or two before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher of literature , a Jesuit father , at a conference on religious drama near Paris .
When Beckett's name came into the discussion , the priest grew loud and told me that Beckett `` hates life '' .
That , I thought , is at least one thing I can find out when we meet .
The Irish accent is , as one would expect , combined with slight inflections from the French .
We walked down the Rue De L'Arcade , thence along beside the Madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe opposite that church .
When Heidegger and Sartre speak of a contrast between being and existence , they may be right , I don't know , but their language is too philosophical for me .
Plays more highly formalized than `` Waiting For Godot '' , `` Endgame '' , and `` Krapp's Last Tape '' would be hard to find .
The classical lines of the church which Napoleon thought of as a Temple of Glory , dominated all the scene where we sat .
The Boulevard De La Madeleine , the Boulevard Malesherbes , and the Rue Royale ran to it with graceful flattery , bearing tidings of the Age of Reason .
The destiny of Racine's Phedre is sealed from the beginning : she will proceed into the dark .
Within this notion clarity is possible , but for us who are neither Greek nor Jansenist there is not such clarity .
The family was Protestant , but for me it was only irksome and I let it go .
At a party an English intellectual -- so-called -- asked me why I write always about distress .
The personal quality of Samuel Beckett is similar to qualities I had found in the plays .
As a Christian , I know I do not stand where Beckett stands , but I do see much of what he sees .
Harold Clurman is right to say that `` Waiting For Godot '' is a reflection ( he calls it a distorted reflection ) `` of the impasse and disarray of Europe's present politics , ethic , and common way of life '' .
`` Waiting For Godot '' sells even better in America than in France .
The consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
Whether any of us remain in it long will depend on what happens as a result of the technological and economic revolutions now going on in the countries of Asia and Africa , and also of course on how long the cold war remains cold .
Even Hemingway , for all his efforts to formulate a naturalistic morality in The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell To Arms never maintained that sex was all .
And D. H. Lawrence , in Fantasia Of The Unconscious , protested vehemently against the overestimation of the sexual motive .
it is Astarte , Ishtar , Venus , Yahwe , Dionysus , Christ , the mysterious and divine orgone energy flowing through the body of the universe .
Lawrence Lipton , in The Holy Barbarians , stresses that for the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure ; ;
As Lipton , the prophet of the beat generation , declares : `` In the sexual act , the beat are filled with mana , the divine power .
This is the Holy Grail these knights of the orgasm pursue , this is the irresistible cosmic urge to which they respond .
If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery , Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz .
In addition , they have been converted to Zen Buddhism , with its glorification of all that is `` natural '' and mysteriously alive , the sense that everything in the world is flowing .
And Zen Buddhism , though it is extremely difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled , helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through sexual release .
One beat poet composes a poem , `` Lines On A Tijuana John '' , which contains a few happy hints for survival .
In his chapter on `` The Loveways Of The Beat Generation '' , Lipton spares the reader none of the sordid details .
No one asks questions about the free union of the sexes in West Venice so long as the partners share the negative attitudes of the group .
The women who come to West Venice , having forsaken radicalism , are interested in living only for the moment , in being constantly on the move .
As Lipton puts it : `` The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana with far greater force , as a unifying principle in human relationships , than at any other time except , perhaps , in the mutual metaphysical orgasms .
If he thus achieves a lyrical , dreamlike , drugged intensity , he pays the price for his indulgence by producing work -- Allen Ginsberg's `` Howl '' is a striking example of this tendency -- that is disoriented , Dionysian but without depth and without Apollonian control .
If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre .
I have no picture in my mind of the garden as a whole -- that I could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of November ; ;
even when the fences became a part of the game -- when a vine-embowered gate-post was the Sleeping Beauty's enchanted castle , or when Rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire , even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside .
And this occurs now , at the refrain of Jacoby's song -- at the point , in fact , of the name `` Lizzy '' -- ; ;
When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that this passage is of critical significance , I come up with the following ideas , which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in a later essay .
it is particularly the artist ( Tonio Kroger , Aschenbach , Leverkuhn ) who suffers from it .
Finally , the theatrical ( and perversely erotic ) notions of dressing up , cosmetics , disguise , and especially change of costume ( or singularity of costume , as with Cipolla ) , are characteristically associated with the catastrophes of Mann's stories .
that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , as is anyone in Mann's stories who produces illusion , and this is true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner .
Something of this can be learned from `` The Way To The Churchyard '' ( 1901 ) , an anecdote about an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die of a stroke or seizure .
His name is Praisegod Piepsam , and he is rather fully described as to his clothing and physiognomy in a way which relates him to a sinister type in the author's repertory -- he is a forerunner of those enigmatic strangers in `` Death In Venice '' , for example , who represent some combination of cadaver , exotic , and psychopomp .
The cyclist , a sufficiently commonplace young fellow , is not named but identified simply as `` Life '' -- that and a license number , which Piepsam uses in addressing him .
that is , on the basis of his own sinfulness and abject wretchedness , Piepsam becomes a prophet who in his ecstasy and in the name of God imprecates doom on Life -- not only the cyclist now , but the audience , the world , as well : `` all you light-headed breed '' .
Then an ambulance comes along , and they drive Praisegod Piepsam away .
And if I have gone into so much detail about so small a work , that is because it is also so typical a work , representing the germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann's writing : the crude sketch of Piepsam contains , in its critical , destructive and self-destructive tendencies , much that is enlarged and illuminated in the figures of , for instance , Naphta and Leverkuhn .
It resembles , too , pictures such as Durer and Bruegel did , in which all that looks at first to be solely pictorial proves on inspection to be also literary , the representation of a proverb , for example , or a deadly sin .
`` Gladius Dei '' ( 1902 ) resembles `` The Way To The Churchyard '' in its representation of a conflict between light and dark , between `` Life '' and a spirit of criticism , negation , melancholy , but it goes considerably further in characterizing the elements of this conflict .
The monk Savonarola , brought over from the Renaissance and placed against the background of Munich at the turn of the century , protests against the luxurious works displayed in the art-shop of M. Bluthenzweig ; ;
On the street outside , Hieronymus envisions a holocaust of the vanities of this world , such a burning of artistic and erotic productions as his namesake actually brought to pass in Florence , and prophetically he issues his curse : `` Gladius Dei super terram cito et velociter '' .
Accordingly , it is the aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation ( which I shall call mimesis in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of imitation ) and a new theory of invention ( which I shall call symbol for reasons to be stated hereafter ) .
The word `` mimesis '' ( `` imitation '' ) is usually associated with Plato and Aristotle .
The Poetics , in affirming that all human arts are `` modes of imitation '' , gives a more serious role to artistic mimesis than did Plato .
But Aristotle kept the principle of levels and even augmented it by describing in the Poetics what kinds of character and action must be imitated if the play is to be a vehicle of serious and important human truths .
For both Plato and Aristotle artistic mimesis , in contrast to the power of dialectic , is relatively incapable of expressing the character of fundamental reality .
The central concern of Erich Auerbach's impressive volume called Mimesis is to describe the shift from a classic theory of imitation ( based upon a recognition of levels of truth ) to a Christian theory of imitation in which the levels are dissolved .
Following the theme of Incarnation in the Gospels , the Christian artist and critic sees in the most commonplace and ordinary events `` figures '' of divine power and reality .
I have chosen to use the word `` mimesis '' in its Christian rather than its classic implications and to discover in the concrete forms of both art and myth powers of theological expression which , as in the Christian mind , are the direct consequence of involvement in historical experience , which are not reserved , as in the Greek mind , only to moments of theoretical reflection .
The principal defender of this view of primary experience as `` causal efficacy '' is Alfred North Whitehead .
Whitehead is here questioning David Hume's understanding of the nature of experience ; ;
What Hume calls `` sensation '' is what Whitehead calls `` perception in the mode of presentational immediacy '' which is a sophisticated abstraction from perception in the mode of causal efficacy .
Both I and my feelings come up out of a chain of events that fan out into the past into sources that are ultimately very unlike the entity which I now am .
I leave it to the statisticians to say what they were , but I noticed several a few years ago , during an automobile ride from Memphis to Hattiesburg .
In town after town my companion pointed out the Negro school and the White school , and in every instance the former made a better appearance ( it was newer , for one thing ) .
It really looked as if a change of the sort predicted by Booker T. Washington had been going on .
For over a hundred years Southerners have felt that the North was picking on them .
By what right of superior virtue , Southerners ask , do the people of the North do this ? ?
The traditional strategy of the South has been to expose the vices of the North , to demonstrate that the North possessed no superior virtue , to `` show the world that '' as James's Christopher Newman said to his adversaries ) `` however bad I may be , you're not quite the people to say it '' .
In the pre-Civil War years , the South argued that the slave was not less humanely treated than the factory worker of the North .
At the present time , the counter-attack takes the line that there's no more of the true spirit of `` integration '' in the North than in the South .
I was having lunch not long ago ( apologies to N. V. Peale ) with three distinguished historians ( one specializing in the European Middle Ages , one in American history , and one in the Far East ) , and I asked them if they could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed with `` deliberate speed , majestic instancy '' ( Francis Thompson's words for the Hound Of Heaven's Pursuit ) by judicial fiat .
A Virginia judge a while back cited a Roman jurist to the effect that ten years might be a reasonable length of time for such a change .
But I suspect that the old Roman was referring to change made under military occupation -- the sort of change which Tacitus was talking about when he said , `` They make a desert , and call it peace '' ( `` Solitudinem faciunt , pacem appellant '' .
Mr. Justice Taney's Dred Scott decision in 1857 was unpopular in the North , and soon became a dead letter .
The Declaration of Independence says that `` governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed '' .
Calhoun dealt with this question in his `` Disquisition On Government '' .
That the Court order does not unequally affect the Southern region ? ?
Who will deny that in a vast portion of the South the Federal action is incompatible with the Jeffersonian concept of `` the consent of the governed '' ? ?
A friend of mine in New Mexico said the Court order had caused no particular trouble out there , that all had gone as merry as a marriage bell .
I murmured something about a possible difference between New Mexico's history and Mississippi's .
One can meet with aloofness almost anywhere : the THIDIU viewpoint , It Doesn't Affect Us ! !
You've already sent your daughter to Miss X's select academy for girls and your son to Mr. Y's select academy for boys , and you can be as liberal as you please with strict impunity .
If there's no suitable academy in your own neighborhood , there's always New England .
New England academies welcome fugitives from the provinces , South as well as West .
They may even enroll a colored student or two for show , though he usually turns out to be from Thailand , or any place other than the American South .
It would be interesting to know how much `` integration '' there is in the famous , fashionable colleges and prep schools of New England .
A recent newspaper report said there were five Negroes in the 1960 graduating class of nearly one thousand at Yale ; ;
I must confess that I prefer the Liberal who is personally affected , who is willing to send his own children to a mixed school as proof of his faith .
I'm talking about the grand manner of the Liberal -- North and South -- who is not affected personally .
Well , after everybody has followed the New England pattern of segregating one's children into private schools , only the poor folks are left .
A dear , respected friend of mine , who like myself grew up in the South and has spent many years in New England , said to me not long ago : `` I can't forgive New England for rejecting all complicity '' .
Being a teacher of American literature , I remembered Whittier's `` Massachusetts To Virginia '' , where he said : `` But that one dark loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone , And reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown '' .
There is a legend ( Hawthorne records it in his `` English Notebooks '' .
And one finds it again in Thomas Nelson Page ) to the effect that the Mayflower on its second voyage brought a cargo of Negro slaves .
Like the cowboy in Stephen Crane's `` Blue Hotel '' , we run around crying , `` Well , I didn't do anything , did I '' ? ?
Robert Penn Warren puts it this way in `` Brother To Dragons '' : `` The recognition of complicity is the beginning of innocence '' , where innocence , I think , means about the same thing as redemption .
A man must be able to say , `` Father , I have sinned '' , or there is no hope for him .
Lincoln understood this better than most when he said in his `` Second Inaugural '' that God `` gives to both North and South this terrible war , as the woe due to those by whom the offense came '' .
Lincoln was historian and economist enough to know that a substantial portion of this wealth had accumulated in the hands of the descendants of New Englanders engaged in the slave trade .
It is a question which New Englanders long ago put out of their minds .
Emerson -- Platonist , idealist , doctrinaire -- sounded a high Transcendental note in his `` Boston Hymn '' , delivered in 1863 in the Boston Music Hall amidst thundering applause : `` Pay ransom to the owner and fill the bag to the brim .
New Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence , as Jefferson explained in his `` Autobiography '' : ``
The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia , who had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves , and who on the contrary still wished to continue it .
Our Northern brethren also I believe felt a little tender under those censures ; ;
The New England conscience became desensitized .
George W. Cable ( naturalized New Englander ) , writing in 1889 from `` Paradise Road , Northampton '' ( lovely symbolic name ) , agitated continuously the `` Southern question '' .
New England , as everyone knows , has long been schoolmaster to the Nation .
There one finds concentrated in a comparatively small area the chief universities , colleges , and preparatory schools of the United States .
It is true that New England , more than any other section , was dedicated to education from the start .
How did it happen , for example , that the state university , that great symbol of American democracy , failed to flourish in New England as it did in other parts of the country ? ?
Isn't it a bit odd that the three states of Southern New England ( Massachusetts , Connecticut , and Rhode Island ) have had state institutions of university status only in the very recent past , these institutions having previously been A & M colleges ? ?
Was it supposed , perchance , that A & M ( vocational training , that is ) was quite sufficient for the immigrant class which flooded that part of the New England world in the post-Civil War period , the immigrants having been brought in from Southern Europe , to work in the mills , to make up for the labor shortage caused by migration to the West ? ?
Is it not ironical that Roger Williams's state , Rhode Island , should have been the very last of the forty-eight to establish a state university ? ?
The state universities of Maine , New Hampshire , And Vermont are older and more `` respectable '' ; ;
A Yale historian , writing a few years ago in The Yale Review , said : `` We in New England have long since segregated our children '' .
Among the recipients of the Nobel Prize for Literature more than half are practically unknown to readers of English .
Of these there are surely few that would be more rewarding discoveries than Verner Von Heidenstam , the Swedish poet and novelist who received the award in 1916 and whose centennial was celebrated two years ago .
On his father's side he was of German descent , on his mother's he came of the old Swedish nobility .
The family estate was situated near Vadstena on Lake Vattern in south central Sweden .
Being somewhat delicate in health , at the age of sixteen he was sent to Southern Europe , for which he at once developed a passion , so that he spent nearly all of the following ten years abroad , at first in Italy , then in Greece , Egypt , Asia Minor , and Palestine .
Deciding to become a painter , he entered the studio of Gerome in Paris , where he enjoyed the life of the artists , but soon found that whatever talent he might have did not lie in that direction .
He gives us an account of this in his lively and humorous poem , `` The Happy Artists '' .
`` I scanned the world through printed symbol swart , And through the beggar's rags I strove to see The inner man .
The first result of Heidenstam's long sojourn abroad was a volume of poems , Pilgrimage And Wander-Years ( Vallfart och Vandringsar ) , published in 1888 .
It was a brilliant debut , so much so indeed that it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets , as did Byron's Childe Harold .
Professor Fredrik Book , Sweden's foremost critic of the period , acclaims it as follows : `` In this we have the verse of a painter ; ;
he tells stories of the Thousand and One Nights , and conjures up before us the bazaars of Damascus .
And yet amid all the gay hedonism in Pilgrimage And Wander-Years is a cycle of short poems , `` Thoughts In Loneliness '' , filled with brooding , melancholy , and sombre longing '' .
Of the longer pieces of the volume none is so memorable as `` Nameless And Immortal '' , which at once took rank among the finest poems ever written in the Swedish language .
It celebrates the unknown architect who designed the temple of Neptune at Paestum , next to the Parthenon the noblest example of Grecian classic style now in existence .
The short poems grouped at the end of the volume as `` Thoughts in Loneliness '' is , as Professor Book indicated , in sharp contrast with the others .
It consists of fragmentary personal revelations , such as `` The Spark '' : `` There is a spark dwells deep within my soul .
That little spark is all the wealth I know , That little spark is my life's misery '' .
A dominant motive is the poet's longing for his homeland and its boyhood associations : `` Not men-folk , but the fields where I would stray , The stones where as a child I used to play '' .
His next major work , completed in 1892 , was a long fantastic epic in prose , entitled Hans Alienus , which Professor Book describes as a monument on the grave of his carefree and indolent youth .
The hero , who is himself , is represented as a pilgrim in the storied lands of the East , a sort of Faustus type , who , to quote from Professor Book again , `` even in the pleasure gardens of Sardanapalus can not cease from his painful search after the meaning of life .
Like his friend and contemporary August Strindberg he had little patience with collective mediocrity .
Whether in prose or poetry , all of Heidenstam's later work was concerned with Sweden .
With the first of a group of historical novels , The Charles Men ( Karolinerna ) , published in 1897-8 , he achieved the masterpiece of his career .
In scope and power it can only be compared to Tolstoy's War And Peace .
The Charles Men consists not of a connected narrative but of a group of short stories , each depicting a special phase of the general subject .
Almost nothing is said of Charles' spectacular victories , the central theme being the heroic loyalty of the Swedish people to their idolized king in misfortune and defeat .
The Charles Men has a tremendous range of characters , of common folk even more than of major figures .
The career of Charles 12 , is obviously very similar to that of Napoleon .
His ideal was Alexander of Macedon , as Napoleon's was Julius Caesar .
The first half of The Charles Men , ending on the climax of the battle of Poltava in 1709 , is more dramatically coherent than the second .
This comes out in `` When The Bells Ring '' , which describes the rallying of the peasants in southern Sweden to repel an invasion by the Danes .
In `` The King's Ride '' , Charles breaks out of a long period of petulance and inertia , regains his old self , escapes from Turkey , and finally reaches his own land after an absence of eighteen years .
But he plunges into yet another , this time with Norway , and is killed in an assault on the fortress of Fredrikshall , being only thirty-six years of age when he died .
This is brought out in the next to last chapter of the book , `` A Hero's Funeral '' , written in the form of an impassioned prose poem .
Excellent in their way , they lack the wide appeal of The Charles Men , and need not detain us here .
It is different with his volume The Swedes And Their Chieftains ( Svenskarna och deras Hovdingar ) , a history intended for the general reader and particularly suited for high school students .
These are suggestive of Selma Lagerlof .
Especially touching is the chapter , `` The Little Sister '' , about a king's daughter who became a nun in the convent of St. Birgitta .
Gustaf Vasa is a superb example , and Charles 10 , , the conqueror of Denmark , hardly less so .
Of Gustavus Adolphus and Charles 12 , it is unnecessary to speak .
In short , the fictional private eye is a specialized version of Adam Smith's ideal entrepreneur , the man whose private ambitions must always and everywhere promote the public welfare .
In the mystery story , as in The Wealth of Nations , individualism and the social good are two sides of the same benevolent coin .
There is only one catch to this idyllic arrangement : Adam Smith was wrong .
The rise of the giant corporations in Western Europe and the United States dates from the period 1880-1900 .
Now , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far as Balzac , Dickens , and Poe , it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction .
Thus the transformation of Adam Smith's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life .
With the advent of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes , the development of the modern private detective begins .
A brief list of the great detective's little idiosyncrasies would provide Dr. Freud with ample food for thought .
As he informs Watson , `` My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence .
The curious relationship between Holmes and Scotland Yard provides an important clue to the deeper significance of his eccentric behavior .
Although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland Yard , Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality of the police .
Another , more interesting explanation , is hinted at by Watson when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have made a magnificent criminal .
Watson's insight is verified by the mysterious link between Holmes and his arch-opponent , Dr. Moriarty .
The first series of Sherlock Holmes adventures ends with Holmes and Moriarty grappling together on the edge of a cliff .
Linked to Holmes even in death , Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might have become were he not a public servant .
Just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the detective , so Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both .
Hercule Poirot and Lord Peter Whimsey ( the respective creations of Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers ) have retained Holmes' egotism but not his zest for life and eccentric habits .
Their dedication to the status quo has been affirmed at the expense of the fascinating but dangerous individualism of a Sherlock Holmes .
In the American `` hardboiled '' detective story of the '20s and '30s , the spirit of the mad genius from Baker Street lives on .
Like Holmes , the American private eye rejects the social conventions of his time .
With Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe , alienation is represented on a purely physical plane .
More profound and more disturbing , however , is the moral isolation of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe .
A similar tone of underlying futility and despair pervades the spy thrillers of Eric Ambler and dominates the most famous of all American mystery stories , Dashiell Hammett's The Maltese Falcon .
For Sam Spade , neither crime nor virtue pays ; ;
Perry Mason and Hamilton Burger , Nero Wolfe and Inspector Cramer spend more time fighting each other than they do in looking for the criminal .
Dashiell Hammett's Red Harvest provides a classic example of this theme .
He is , like Phillip Marlowe , too alienated to be reliable .
Finally , in The Maltese Falcon among others , the clash between detective and police is carried to its logical conclusion : Sam Spade becomes the chief murder suspect .
What was only a vague suspicion in the case of Sherlock Holmes now appears as a direct accusation : the private eye is in danger of turning into his opposite .
The first of two possible variations on this theme is symbolized by Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer .
For example , suppose a man wearing a $200 watch , driving a 1959 Rolls Royce , stops to ask a man on the sidewalk , `` What time is it '' ? ?
The completeness of the connections provide that , for N people , there are Af lines of communication between the pairs , which can become a large number ( 1,225 ) for a party of fifty guests .
In spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group , the Af incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond comprehension if N exceeds about six .
The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : ( A ) One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. .
Of types of message listed in Table 1 , commands and statements are the only ones sent through the vertical network shown in Figure 3 .
This is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated , although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the Finns in geochemistry .
For example , there are persons who are in physical science , in the field of mineralogy , trained in crystallography , who use only X-rays , applying only the powder technique of X-ray diffraction , to clay minerals only , and who have spent the last fifteen years concentrating on the montmorillonites ; ;
American democratic thought , pointed up the relation between the Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social religion , which he called the American Democratic Faith .
He points out that from the time of Jackson on through World War 1 , , evangelical Protestantism was a dominant influence in the social and political life of America .
He terms this early enthusiasm `` Romantic Christianity '' and concludes that its similarity to democratic beliefs of that day is so great that `` the doctrine of liberty seems but a secular version of its counterpart in evangelical Protestantism '' .
He says : `` beside the Protestant philosophy of Progress , as expressed in radical or conservative millenarianism , should be placed the doctrine of the democratic faith which affirmed it to be the duty of the destiny of the United States to assist in the creation of a better world by keeping lighted the beacon of democracy '' .
He specifies , `` in the middle period of the Nineteenth Century it was colored by Christian supernaturalism , in the Twentieth Century it was affected by naturalism .
Some fourteen or fifteen years ago , in an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? ?
I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism .
And with Progressivism the Religion of Humanity was replacing what Gabriel called Christian supernaturalism .
During the decade that followed , the common man , as that piece put it , grew uncomfortable as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow ( Wilson ) only to learn from Science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much couldn't be expected of him .
The socialism implicit in the slogan of the Roosevelt Revolution , freedom from want and fear , seems a far cry from the individualism of the First Amendment to the Constitution , or of the Jacksonian frontier .
French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence in this country before the days of Popularism .
The riotous onrush of industrialism after the War for Southern Independence and the general secular drift to the Religion of Humanity , however , prepared the way for a reception of the French Revolution's socialistic offspring of one sort of another .
Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the Depression , the common ethos of Materialism everywhere , all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the Little People .
However , it is important to trace the philosophy of the French Revolution to its sources to understand the common democratic origin of individualism and socialism and the influence of the latter on the former .
That John Locke's philosophy of the social contract fathered the American Revolution with its Declaration of Independence , I believe , we generally accept .
Yet , after Rousseau had given the social contract a new twist with his notion of the General Will , the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also .
This notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship .
And it is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle , in his remarkable long essay , The Heresy Of Democracy , and in a more general way by Voegelin , in his New Science Of Politics , that this same Rousseauan idea , descending through European democracy , is the source of Marx's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
This is important to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves in after World War 2 , and our great democratic victory that brought no peace .
The long road that had taken liberals in this country into the social religion of democracy , into a worship of man , led logically to the Marxist dream of a classless society under a Socialist State .
We will recall that the still confident liberals of the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in San Francisco to set up the legal framework , finally and at last , to rationalize war -- to rationalize want and fear -- out of the world : the United Nations .
During the next five years the leaders of the Fair Deal reluctantly backed down from the optimistic expectations of the New Deal .
During the next five years liberal leaders in the United States sank in the cumulative confusion attendant upon and manifested in a negative policy of Containment -- and the bitterest irony -- enforced and enforceable only by threat of a weapon that we felt the greatest distaste for but could not abandon : the atom bomb .
But I have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common man , to point up what happened to him under Eisenhower's leadership .
A perceptive journalist , Sam Lubell , has phrased it in the title of one of his books as the revolt of the moderates .
And I select this sentence as its pertinent summation : `` in essence the drama of his ( Eisenhower's ) Presidency can be described as the ordeal of a nation turned conservative and struggling -- thus far with but limited and precarious success -- to give effective voice and force to that conservatism '' .
I saw a piece the other day assailing William Buckley , author of Man And God at Yale and publisher of The National Review , as no conservative at all , but an old liberal .
One of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of the last election , I suppose , is that we , the majority , were dissatisfied with Eisenhower conservatism .
But before I try to diagnose it , I would offer other evidence .
The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise , sponsored by Life magazine , under the title of The National Purpose .
The contributors to this testament were all well-known : a former Democratic candidate for President , a New Deal poet , the magazine's chief editorial writer , two newspaper columnists , head of a national broadcasting company , a popular Protestant evangelist , etc. .
I suppose we might classify Billy Graham as an old liberal .
Only Walter Lippman envisioned the possibility of our having `` outlived most of what we used to regard as the program of our national purposes '' .
The second specific comment was the report of Eisenhower's Commission on National Goals , titled Goals For Americans .
They , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly of Columbia University , because it was non-partisan .
The Commission seems to represent the viewpoint of what I would call the unconscious liberal , but not unconscious enough , to invoke the now taboo symbolism of socialism .
And here again we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the United States set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
And let me add Murray's new book as another symptom of it , particularly so in view of the attention Time magazine gave it when it came out recently .
Father Murray goes back to the Declaration of Independence , too , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception .
I will reserve discussion of it for a moment , however , to return to President Kennedy .
Ralph Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress .
Asked which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists in America today .
But hear Harrison E. Salisbury , former Moscow correspondent of The New York Times , and author of `` To Moscow -- And Beyond '' .
In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
They were not diplomats or jazz musicians , or even organizers of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays , but rugged capitalist entrepreneurs like Henry Ford , Hugh Cooper , Thomas Campbell , the International Harvester Co. , and David W. Griffith .
Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies .
This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda ''
Also , I am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership , I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees .
During the last years of Woodrow Wilson's administration , a red scare developed in our country .
Many Americans reacted irrationally to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of ideas by force .
Postmaster General Burleson set about to protect the American people against radical propaganda that might be spread through the mails .
Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails , in direct violation of their constitutional rights .
Then , not many years later , the Un-American Activities Committee , under the leadership of Martin Dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
This hysteria reached its height under the leadership of Senator Joseph McCarthy .
They give strict interpretation to William James' statement that `` Every idea that enters the mind tends to express itself '' .
The writer took a class of college students to the state hospital for the mentally ill in St. Joseph , Missouri .
What of his treatment of the Jew in The Merchant Of Venice ? ?
Shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of Shylock , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
The Jews had been banished from England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655 , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years .
Rather than from a first-hand study of Jewish people , his delineation of Shylock stems from a collection of Italian stories , Il Pecorone , published in 1558 , although written almost two centuries earlier .
Harris J. Griston , in Shaking The Dust From Shakespeare ( 216 ) , writes : `` There is not a word spoken by Shylock which one would expect from a real Jew '' .
Just as now anyone may hurl insults at a citizen of Mars , or even of Tikopia , and no senatorial investigation will result .
He tells of his `` Jewish heart '' -- not a Shylockian heart ; ;
If living Jews were unavailable for study , the Bible was at hand .
Reading the Old Testament would have shown the dramatist that the ideas attributed to Shylock were abhorrent to the Jews .
Are we better off for having Shakespeare's idea of Shylock ? ?
Studying The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about Jews .
Thomas De Torquemada , Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition , put many persons to death .
Would we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today's Roman Catholics by saying he had a Catholic heart ? ?
When Peter B. Kyne ( Pride Of Palomar , 43 ) informed us in 1921 that we had an instinctive dislike for the Japanese , did the heated debates of the Californians settle the truth or falsity of the proposition ? ?
The Leopard's Spots came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap heap .
Helen Deutsch informed us ( The Psychology Of Women , Vol. 2 , , 434 ) that in all cultures `` the term ' stepmother ' automatically evokes deprecatory implications '' , a conclusion accepted by many .
In truth , we can say that this broke the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy , who was finally exposed in full light to the American people .
It is testimony to the deep respect in which Mr. Eisenhower was held by members of all parties that the moral considerations raised by his approach to the matter were not explicitly to be broached .
And if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate the ethics of the medical profession , his article in the Atlantic Monthly accomplished a good deal more .
He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers .
It is of the utmost importance to the people of America and of the world how their governing President `` ends up '' during the four years of his term .
For the tone of the editorials which greeted Mr. Eisenhower's original announcement of his running had been strangely disquieting .
Nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy .
The double editorial on Two Aspects Of `` The U.S. Spirit '' was subtly calculated to suggest a moral sanction for gambles great as well as small , reflecting popular approval of this questionable attitude toward the highest office in the land .
`` The Moral Creed '' and `` The Will To Risk '' live happily together , if we do not examine where the line is to be drawn .
`` I may possibly be a greater risk than is the normal person of my age '' , the President had said on February 29th of the election year , ignoring the fact that no one of his age had ever lived out another term .
Ironically no president we have had would have regretted more than President Eisenhower the possibility to which his own words , in the press conference held at the beginning of August , testified : that unable as he was himself to say his running was best for the country , unconsciously he had placed his party before his nation .
In assigning to God the responsibility which he learned could not rest with his doctors , Eisenhower gave evidence of that weakening of the moral intuition which was to characterize his administration in the years to follow .
When the possibility that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision seemed to disconcert his questioners , Mr. Eisenhower was known to make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going to talk about the matter any more .
Like Lincoln , he can distinguish his relation to God from the constitutional responsibilities a questionable decision exacts of him .
Like Roosevelt , he can distinguish an attitude toward a Russian leader he may share with a host of Americans from the responsibilities diplomatic convention may impose upon him .
Only recently , and perhaps because a television debate can so effectively dramatize President Kennedy's extraordinary mastery of detail , have the abilities on which the capacity for making distinctions depend begun to be clearly discernible at the level of politics .
In his recent evaluation of Kennedy's potentialities for leadership , Walter Lippmann has cited the `` precision '' of his mind , his `` immense command '' of factual detail , and his `` instinct for the crucial point '' as impressive in the extreme ; ;
Weil identifies it as being `` rootless '' , Guardini as being `` placeless '' , Riesman as being `` lonely '' .
Now we can argue that the irresistible fate of Oedipus Rex was nothing more than the irresistible unconscious longings of Oedipus projected outward , but this externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between a story and a clinical case history .
We can also argue that the three brothers Karamazov and Smerdyakov were the external representatives of an internal conflict within one man , Dostoevsky , a conflict having to do with father-murder and the wish to possess the father's woman .
But a novel in which one man Karamazov explored the divisions within his personality would scarcely merit publication in the Psychoanalytic Quarterly .
It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex .
Whatever the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth , an Oedipus who is drawn to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
Which brings to mind another Lawrence story and some interesting comparisons in the treatment of the Oedipal theme .
`` The Rocking Horse Winner '' is also a story about a boy's love for his mother .
If I now risk some comparisons with Sons And Lovers let it be clear that I am not comparing the two works or judging their merits ; ;
`` The Rocking Horse Winner '' is a fantasy with extraordinary power to disturb the reader -- but we do not know why .
But on one occasion when I encountered a similar fantasy in a little boy who was my patient I began to understand the uncanny effects of this story .
We are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend , while the incestuous love of the man , Paul Morel , sometimes repels .
It is most probable that Freud and the Oedipus complex never entered his head in the writing of this story .
I have argued that Oedipus of the Oedipus complex has a doubtful future as a tragic figure in literature .
In both the farmer's tale in Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man and in Thomas Mann's The Holy Sinner , the incest hero rises above the myth by accepting the wish as motive ; ;
Thomas Mann wrote The Holy Sinner in 1951 .
It was conceived as a leave-taking , a kind of melancholy gathering-in of the myths of the West , `` bevor die Nacht sinkt , eine lange Nacht vielleicht und ein tiefes Vergessen '' .
He chose a medieval legend of incest , Gregorius Vom Stein , and freely borrowed and parodied other myths of the West , mixing themes , language , peoples and times in a master myth in which the old forms continually renew themselves , as in his previous treatment of Joseph .
But The Holy Sinner is not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment .
Grigorss is the child of an incestuous union between a royal brother and sister , the twins Sibylla and Wiligis .
At the end of this period two pious Christians in Rome receive the revelation which leads them to seek the next Pope on the rock .
Grigorss comes to Rome and becomes a great and beloved Pope .
In the last pages of the book Sibylla comes to Rome to seek an audience with the great Pope and to give her confession .
In recollection he has said : `` Natural or man-made objects kept coming into my head , but I would suppress them sternly '' .
The worthy Mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : `` But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition '' ! !
but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing .
His canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be `` Figures In Space '' , or `` Blue Figure '' , or `` Pink Figure '' ; ;
Exhibited in shows in London in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked `` as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement '' , according to Herbert Read , `` and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger '' .
In America , Meyer Schapiro observed that , unlike the Mondrian school , Helion `` sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the framework of abstract art '' .
It is notable that at this time he was writing with admiration of Cimabue's and Poussin's way of filling space .
but , he held , instead of continuing as an `` art of reduction '' , it must grow , must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian .
Later Helion wrote of this phase : `` For years I built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name .
During the 1920's the Abstractionists , the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place .
But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to `` escape '' from the real world , or simply to rebel against it , the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930's were painting embodied the hope of `` improving '' things .
Instead of this the 1930's witnessed a tragic economic depression , the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe , the wasting Civil War in Spain .
Very much the political man , Helion felt himself deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France and all Europe , whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky .
The Rooseveltian America was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute the last best hope for civilization .
`` I arrived in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions '' .
In New York he was well received by what was then only a small brave band of non-figurative artists , including Alexander Calder , George K. L. Morris , De Kooning , Holty and a few others .
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square , having married an American girl who was a native of Virginia , Helion moved to a village in the Blue Ridge mountains , where he produced some of the most imposing of his abstract canvases .
The darkening world scene , at the time of the Munich Pact , continued to trouble his mind even in his remote Virginia studio .
a `` Double-Figure '' , which went to the Chicago Art Institute , and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts ; ;
`` I knew I was carrying on with abstraction to its very end -- for me '' , he said of the two years' output in Virginia .
but after war came to Europe , he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 .
`` I hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought I ought to go because I was , perhaps , one of those who hadn't done enough to prevent it '' .
In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him .
His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated .
After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany .
A year later they were removed to a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin .
At the time of his capture Helion had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth's in New York .
`` It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! !
At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander .
In secret he also acted as a member of the prisoners' Central Committee , which plotted sabotage , planned a few escapes , and maintained a hidden control over the wretched French slave-laborers .
In the Stalag , Helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other .
In the prison camp's Black Market civilian clothes were quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him ; ;
Shedding his prison cloak , Helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a Flemish worker .
Riding trains , hitching hikes on trucks across Germany , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia .
Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life .
Before leaving for America , he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to him his new resolutions .
Helion , however , clung to the belief that `` in escaping from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction '' .
While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me Published originally in ( Helion's ) English by Dutton & Co. of New York , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of World War 2 , from the French side .
Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
Important as was Mr. O'Donnell's essay , his thesis is so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has .
He and also Mr. Cowley and Mr. Warren have fallen to the temptation which besets many of us to read into our authors -- Nathaniel Hawthorne , for example , and Herman Melville -- protests against modernism , material progress , and science which are genuine protests of our own but may not have been theirs .
Faulkner's total works today , and in fact those of his works which existed in 1946 when Mr. Cowley made his comment , or in 1939 , when Mr. O'Donnell wrote his essay , reveal no such simple attitude toward the South .
If he sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen , he sees also -- and he shows -- the blind and the mean , and he sees the Compson family disintegrating from within .
If the barn-burner's family produces a Flem Snopes , who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic crassness , the Compson family produces a Jason Compson 4 .
Among them are Frederick J. Hoffman , William Van O'Connor , and Mrs. Olga Vickery .
They have indicated the direction but they have not been explicit enough , I believe , in pointing out Faulkner's independence , his questioning if not indeed challenging the Southern tradition .
Faulkner's is not the mind of the apologist which Mr. O'Donnell implies that it is .
He is not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago .
The fact that he has cast over those materials the light of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern , I rather think , for the South has been no more solid than other regions except in the political and related areas where patronage and force and intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity .
There is no necessity , I suppose , to assert that Mr. Faulkner is Southern .
And , after all , he has lived comfortably at both Oxford , Mississippi , and Charlottesville , Virginia .
The young William Faulkner in New Orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist Hamilton Basso as obviously conscious of being a Southerner , and there is no evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so .
His denials of extensive reading notwithstanding , it is no doubt safe to assume that he has spent time schooling himself in Southern history and that he has gained some acquaintance with the chief literary authors who have lived in the South or have written about the South .
But in looking at Faulkner against his background in Mississippi and the South , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
Evidence is plentiful that early and later also he has been indebted to the Gothic romancers , who deal in extravagant horror , to the symbolists writing at the end of the preceding century , and in particular to the stream-of-consciousness novelists , Henry James and James Joyce among them .
My intention , therefore , is not to say that Faulkner's awareness has been confined within the borders of the South , but rather that he has looked at his world as a Southerner and that presumably his outlook is Southern .
A useful comment on his relation to his region may be made , I think , by noting briefly how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he has deviated from the pattern set by other Southern authors while remaining faithful to the essential character of the region .
The planter aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton Kennedy published Swallow-Barn in 1832 and in his genial portrait of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated the most persistent tradition of Southern literature .
The thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society did not come , however , until after the Civil War when Southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed .
The tradition reached its apex , perhaps , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward the end of the century , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
Although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition , he did not have Stark Young's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize the planter society .
The myth of the Southern plantation has had only a tangential relation with actuality , as Francis Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago , and I suspect it has had a far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed .
Without saying or seeming to say that in portraying the Sartoris and the Compson families Faulkner's chief concern is social criticism , we can say nevertheless that through those families he dramatizes his comment on the planter dynasties as they have existed since the decades before the Civil War .
It may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional pattern more violently than in any other regard , for the treatment in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen Glasgow , who was the only important novelist before him to challenge the conventional picture of planter society .
They have an ancestry extending back , however , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina .
The chief literary antecedents of the Snopes clan appeared in the realistic , humorous writing which originated in the South and the Southwest in the three decades before the Civil War .
These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers , as a rule , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
William Gilmore Simms , sturdy realist that he was , pleaded for a natural robustness such as he found in his favorites the great Elizabethans , to vivify the pale writings being produced around him .
Augustus Baldwin Longstreet , a preacher and a college and university president in four Southern states , published the earliest of these backwoods sketches and in the character Ransy Sniffle , in the accounts of sharp horse-trading and eye-gouging physical combat , and in the shockingly unliterary speech of his characters , he set an example followed by many after him .
Others who wrote of low characters and low life included Thomas Bangs Thorpe , creator of the Big Bear Of Arkansas and Tom Owen , the Bee-Hunter ; ;
Johnson Jones Hooper , whose character Simon Suggs bears a close kinship to Flem Snopes in both his willingness to take cruel advantage of all and sundry and the sharpness with which he habitually carried out his will ; ;
and George Washington Harris , whose Tennessee hillbilly character Sut Lovingood perpetrated more unmalicious mischief and more unintended pain than any other character in literature .
It would be profitable , I believe , to read these realistic humorists alongside Faulkner's works , the thought being not that he necessarily read them and owed anything to them directly , but rather that they dealt a hundred years ago with a class of people and a type of life which have continued down to our time , to Faulkner's time .
Such a comparison reminds us that in employing low characters in his works Faulkner is recording actuality in the South and moreover is following a long-established literary precedent .
Such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , as they did in the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris , but it need not be added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers ; ;
One of the early humorists already mentioned , Thomas Bangs Thorpe , can be used to illustrate another point where Faulkner touches authentic Southern materials and also earlier literary treatment of those materials .
Thorpe came to Louisiana from the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty .
As a consequence of the tensions thus produced in his thoughts and feelings , he wrote on the one hand sketches of idealized hunting trips and on the other an anecdote of the village of Hardscrabble , Arkansas , where no one had ever seen a piano ; ;
and he wrote also the masterpiece of frontier humor , `` The Big Bear Of Arkansas '' , in which earthy realism is placed alongside the exaggeration of the backwoods tall-tale and the awe with which man contemplates the grandeur and the mysteries of nature .
Some years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of Science that `` man's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are ( now ) in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice age '' .
As a Humanist , Dr. Huxley interests himself in the possibilities of human development , and one thing we can say about this suggestion , which comes from a leading zoologist , is that , so far as he is concerned , the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon the idea of future human evolution .
This text from Dr. Huxley is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment of psychic powers in human beings .
All we want from Dr. Huxley's statement is the feeling that this is an open world , in the view of the best scientific opinion , with practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next , and no important confinements with respect to what may be possible .
This is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States during recent years .
A characteristic expression of such concern and inquiry is found in Joseph P. Lyford's Introduction To The Agreeable Autocracies , a recent paperback study of the institutions of modern democratic society .
After casting about for a way of describing this spirit , we decided that it would be better to use Mr. Lyford's introduction as an illustration .
At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
Such activity may or may not have irritated the Kremlin , but it has frequently condemned America to an unnatural defensiveness that has undermined our effort to give leadership to the free world .
Mr. Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by our Department of State , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more capitalistic '' .
One thing you can say about Mr. Lyford is that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American .
The interesting thing about Mr. Lyford's approach , and the approach of the contributors to The Agreeable Autocracies ( Oceana Publications , 1961 ) to the situation of American civilization , is that it is concerned with comprehending the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect on American life .
The new spirit , so well illustrated by Mr. Lyford's work , is wholly free of this anxiety .
It does not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles on The National Purpose .
The Agreeable Autocracies is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect and determine the character of the free society today .
These institutions which Mr. Lyford names `` agreeable autocracies '' -- where did they come from ? ?
Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara .
Should Rousseau have been able to leave room in his social theory for the advent of television , atomic energy , and IBM machines ? ?
How would Thomas Jefferson feel after reading Factories In The Field ? ?
The reality of the situation , however , is described by Mr. Lyford : ``
Not only did constellations like Draco , Cepheus , and Cassiopeia spin circles around the pole , but stars which were not circumpolar rose and set at the same place on the horizon each night .
By distinguishing superlunary ( celestial ) and sublunary ( terrestrial ) existence , and reinforcing this with the four-element physics of Empedocles , Aristotle came to speak of the stars as perfect bodies , which moved in only a perfect way , viz. in a perfect circle .
Let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between Ptolemaic and Copernican astronomy .
The Almagest and The Hypotheses outline Ptolemy's conception of his own task as the provision of computational tables , independent calculating devices for the prediction of future planetary perturbations .
Indeed , in the Halma edition of Theon's presentation of The Hypotheses there is a chart setting out ( under six distinct headings ) otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing the planetary motions .
But none of this has prevented scientists , philosophers , and even historians of science , from speaking of the Ptolemaic system , in contrast to the Copernican .
It is engendered by confounding the Aristotelian cosmology in The Almagest with the geocentric astronomy .
So when textbooks , like that of Baker set out drawings of the ' Ptolemaic System ' , complete with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged on their several deferents , we have nothing but a misleading 20th-century idea of what never existed historically .
Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs. Copernican astronomy , turns on the idea of simplicity .
It is often stated that Copernican astronomy is ' simpler ' than Ptolemaic .
Thus , Margenau remarks : `` A large number of unrelated epicycles was needed to explain the observations , but otherwise the ( Ptolemaic ) system served well and with quantitative precision .
If in any one calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles all at once , while Copernicus never required more than one third this number , then ( in the sense obvious to Margenau ) Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler than Copernican .
Thus , in no ordinary sense of ' simplicity ' is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican .
Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed ( with difficulty ) only by accomplished experts .
In a sense , Einstein's theory is simpler than Newton's , and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus' theory is simpler than Ptolemy's .
This characterizes Euclid's formulation of geometry , but not Ptolemy's astronomy .
There are in The Almagest no rules for determining in advance whether a new epicycle will be required for dealing with abberations in lunar , solar , or planetary behavior .
Copernicus , to an extent unachieved by Ptolemy , approximated to Euclid's vision .
Hence , noting the simplicity achieved in Copernicus' formulation does not provide another reason for the acceptance of De Revolutionibus , another reason beyond its systematic superiority .
Granted , the cosmological , philosophical , and cultural reverberations initiated by the De Revolutionibus were felt with increasing violence during the 300 years to follow .
What in The Almagest draws his fire ? ?
This arrangement was for Copernicus literally monstrous : `` With ( the Ptolemaists ) it is as though an artist were to gather the hands , feet , head and other members for his images from divers models , each part excellently drawn , but not related to a single body ; ;
That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy's theory was not discovered de novo by Copernicus .
The critical , rigorous examinations of Nicholas of Cusa and Nicholas of Oresme provided the context ( a late medieval context ) for Nicholas Copernicus' own work .
Henrietta's feeling of identity with Sara Sullam was crowned by her discovery of the coincidence that Sara's epitaph in the Jewish cemetery in Venice referred to her as `` the Sulamite '' .
Into the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama Henrietta , as every artist delights to do , wove strands of her own intuitive insights into human nature and -- especially in the remarkable story of the attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters as this pair -- into the relations of men and women : `` In their relations , she was the giver and he the receiver , nay the demander .
Dr. Isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of Sara Sullam that he considered submitting it to the Century Magazine or Harper's but he decided that its Jewish subject probably would not interest them and published it in The Messenger , `` so our readers will be benefited instead '' .
Under her father's influence it did not occur to Henrietta that she might write on subjects outside the Jewish field , but she did begin writing for other Anglo-Jewish papers and thus increased her output and her audience .
And she wrote the libretto for an oratorio on the subject of Judas Maccabeus performed at the Hanukkah festival which came in December .
By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that Papa and Mamma gave her a Life Of Dickens as a spur to her aspiration .
Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home .
In September '76 Thomas Huxley , Darwin's famous disciple , came from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the University ; ;
In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
From Philadelphia came Cyrus Adler and Joseph Jastrow .
Adler , Judge Sulzberger's nephew , came to study Assyriology .
Joseph Jastrow , the younger son of the distinguished rabbi , Marcus Jastrow , was a friendly , round-faced fellow with a little mustache , whose field was psychology , and who was also a punster and a jolly tease .
His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold , and Joe lived with the Szolds for a while .
Both these youths , who greatly admired Henrietta , were somewhat younger than she , as were also the neighboring Friedenwald boys , who were then studying medicine ; ;
Besides , Miss Henrietta -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; ;
so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
Henrietta , however , was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with Joe's older and more serious brother , Morris , who was just about her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia with Papa , when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe .
Young Morris , who , while attending the University of Pennsylvania , also taught and edited a paper , found time to write Henrietta twenty-page letters on everything that engaged his interest , from the acting of Sarah Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of `` Sulamith '' on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati .
Unlike his younger brother , Joe , he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as `` My dear friend '' , although he praised and envied the elegance and purity of her style .
And when he complained of the lack of time for all he wanted to do , Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning as she and Papa did .
One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as herself .
She could not resist the opportunity `` of showing her superiority in argument over a man '' which she had remarked as one of the `` feminine follies '' of Sara Sullam ; ;
and in her forthright way , Henrietta , who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness `` to think of men as the privileged '' and `` women as submissive and yielding '' , felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception -- he objected to her stand on the Corbin affair , as well as on the radical reforms of Dr. Wise of Hebrew Union College -- until once , in sheer desperation , he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree on anything .
But that did not prevent him from writing more long letters , or from coming to spend his Christmas vacations with the hospitable , lively Szolds in their pleasant house on Lombard Street .
`` we've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott's Little Women ; ;
and , `` I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out Jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the March family , which had first appeared when Henrietta was eight ; ;
Mr. March , like Benjamin Szold , was a clergyman , although of an indeterminate denomination ; ;
and `` Marmee '' March , like Sophie Szold , was the competent manager of her brood of girls , of whom the Marches had only four to the Szolds' five .
But the March girls had their counterparts in the Szold girls .
Henrietta could easily identify herself with Jo March , although Jo was not the eldest sister .
Neither was Henrietta hoydenish like Jo , who frankly wished she were a boy and had deliberately shortened her name , which , like Henrietta's , was the feminine form of a boy's name .
But both were high-spirited and vivacious , both had tempers to control , both loved languages , especially English and German , both were good teachers and wrote for publication .
Bertha Szold was more like Meg , the eldest March girl , who `` learned that a woman's happiest kingdom is home , her highest honor the art of ruling it , not as a queen , but a wise wife and mother '' .
Sadie , like Beth March , suffered ill health -- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart -- but that never dampened her spirits .
She wrote gay plays about the girls for family entertainments , like `` Oh , What Fun ! !
A Comedy In Three Acts '' , in which , under `` Personages '' , Henrietta appeared as `` A Schoolmarm '' , and Bertha , who was only a trifle less brilliant in high school than Henrietta had been , appeared as `` Dummkopf '' .
played Chopin in the `` Soiree Musicale of Mr. Guthrie's Pupils '' ; ;
and she recited `` Hector's Farewell To Andromache '' most movingly , to the special delight of Rabbi Jastrow at his home in Germantown near Philadelphia , where the Szold girls took turns visiting between the visits of the Jastrow boys at the Szolds' in Baltimore .
Adele , like Amy , the youngest of the Marches , was the rebellious , mischievous , rather calculating and ambitious one .
For Rachel , conceded to be the prettiest of the Szold girls -- and she did make a pretty picture sitting in the grape-arbor strumming her guitar and singing in her silvery tones -- there was no particular March counterpart ; ;
The Szolds , like the Marches , enjoyed and loved living together , even in troubled times ; ;
This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as Papa had first fallen in love with her Mamma before he chose her ; ;
and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
And just as `` Laurie '' Lawrence was first attracted to bright Jo March , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister Amy , so Joe Jastrow , who had also been writing Henrietta before he came to Johns Hopkins , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty Rachel .
And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved in `` lovering '' before herself , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi .
Even so , many of the things that happened to Wright and Olgivanna seem inordinately severe .
Reporters began to trail Miriam everywhere , and to encourage her to make appalling statements about Wright and his doings .
The distracted Miriam would agree to a settlement through her legal representative , then change her mind and make another attack on Wright as a person .
At last her lawyer , Arthur D. Cloud , gave up the case because she turned down three successive settlements he arranged .
Cloud made an interesting statement in parting from his client : `` I wanted to be a lawyer , and Mrs. Wright wanted me to be an avenging angel .
But every time I suggested this to her , Mrs. Wright turned it down and demanded that I go out and punish Mr. Wright .
Miriam Noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor , and appointed a heavy-faced young man named Harold Jackson to take his place .
and during the unhappy time , Miriam often would charge that Wright and Olgivanna were misdemeanants against the public order of Wisconsin .
Yet somehow , when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to execute the warrants , they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna at home .
The misery of Miriam's bitterness can be felt today by anyone who studies the case -- it was hopeless , agonizing , and destructive , with Miriam herself bearing the heaviest burden of shame and pain .
To get an idea of the embarrassment and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna , we should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person .
One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring Green toward the end of the open warfare , on a beautiful day in June .
At this time Miriam Noel appeared , urging on Constable Henry Pengally , whose name showed him to be a descendant of the Welsh settlers in the neighborhood .
Miriam was stopped at the Taliesin gate , and William Weston , now the estate foreman , came out to parley .
He said that Mr. Wright was not in , and so could not be arrested on something called a peace warrant that Miriam was waving in the air .
At this point Mrs. Frances Cupply , one of Wright's handsome daughters by his first wife , came from the house and tried to calm Miriam as she tore down a no visitors sign and smashed the glass pane on another sign with a rock .
Miriam Noel Wright said , `` Here I am at my own home , locked out so I must stand in the road '' ! !
Then she rounded on Weston and cried , `` You always did Wright's dirty work ! !
When I take over Taliesin , the first thing I'll do is fire you '' .
`` Madame Noel , I think you had better go '' , said Mrs. Cupply .
`` And I think you had better leave '' , replied Miriam .
In the silence that followed , Miriam walked close to Mrs. Cupply , who drew back a step on her side of the gate .
Then , with staring eyes and lips drawn thin , Miriam said to the young woman , `` You are ugly -- uglier than you used to be , and you were always very ugly .
You are even uglier than Mr. Wright '' .
As if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement at all , Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him ; ;
she also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William Norris of Nebraska , the Fighting Liberal , from whose office a sympathetic but cautious harrumphing was heard .
Then , after overtures to accept a settlement and go through with a divorce , Miriam gave a ghastly echo of Mrs. Micawber by suddenly stating , `` I will never leave Mr. Wright '' .
Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly , but one can feel the generalized anger in Wright's remarks to reporters when he was asked , one morning on arrival in Chicago , what he thought of the city as a whole .
But surely Michigan Avenue was handsome ? ?
`` Take a gigantic knife and sweep it over the Loop '' , Wright said .
Little enough joy was afforded Wright in the spring of 1925 , when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin .
The first news stories had it that this blaze was started by a bolt of lightning , as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven like a prophet of the Old Testament .
In spite of the disaster , Wright completed during this period plans for the Lake Tahoe resort , in which he suggested the shapes of American Indian tepees -- a project of great and appropriate charm , that came to nothing .
Amid a shortage of profitable work , the memory of Albert Johnson's $20,000 stood out in lonely grandeur -- the money had quickly melted away .
While this was under consideration , dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin 3 .
As he made plans for the new Taliesin , Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp .
Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper , and Wright was justified in thinking , as the projects failed , that much of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except by visitors to Taliesin .
Billy Koch , who had once worked for Wright as a chauffeur , gave a deposition for Miriam's use that he had seen Olgivanna living at Taliesin .
This might put Wright in such a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin ; ;
nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor's bills '' , he could more quickly provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris , as she preferred .
His reply was , `` Everything that has been printed derogatory to you , purporting to have come from me , was a betrayal , and nothing yet has been printed which I have sanctioned '' .
What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told the papers about a reasonable offer he had made , which he considered she would accept `` when she tires of publicity '' .
From her California headquarters , Miriam fired back , `` I shall never divorce Mr. Wright , to permit him to marry Olga Milanoff '' .
Then Miriam varied the senseless psychological warfare by suddenly withdrawing a suit for separate maintenance that had been pending , and asking for divorce on the grounds of cruelty , with the understanding that Wright would not contest it .
The Bank of Wisconsin sent a representative to the judge's chambers in Madison to give information on Wright's ability to meet the terms .
Miriam said that she must be assured that `` that other woman , Olga , will not be in luxury while I am scraping along '' .
This exhausted Wright's patience , and in consequence he talked freely to reporters in a Madison hotel suite .
If Mrs. Wright doesn't accept the terms in the morning , I'll go either to Tokyo or to Holland , to do what I can .
Here Wright gave a slight sigh of weariness , and continued , `` It means more long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people , making shift to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding as I best can for myself and those dependent upon me '' .
but Wright stayed in the United States .
His mentioning of Japan and Holland had been merely the expression of wishful thinking .
In a few weeks Miriam made another sortie at Taliesin , but was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates .
But what you could not know , of course , was how smoothly the Victorian Fitzgerald was to lead into an American Fitzgerald of my own vintage under whose banner we adolescents were to come , if not of age , then into a bright , taut semblance of it .
I do not suppose you ever heard of F. Scott Fitzgerald , living or dead , and moreover I do not suppose that , even if you had , his legend would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval .
Although his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of , nor was it for yachts , sports cars , tall drinks , and swimming pools , nor yet for money or what money buys that I burned , I too was burning and watching myself burn .
It was symbolized ( at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image ) by that self-consuming , elegiac candle of Edna St. Vincent Millay's , that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a beacon to us , but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall as a funeral taper to last even the evening , let alone the night .
Yet this passion for passion , now that I look back on it with passion spent , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
Only what else was she singing but the old Song of Songs , that most ancient of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves ? ?
In any case , Miss Millay's sweet-throated bitterness , her variations on the theme that the world was not only well lost for love but even well lost for lost love , her constant and wonderfully tragic posture , so unlike that of Fitzgerald since it required no scenery or props , drew from the me that I was when I fell upon her verses an overwhelming yea .
But all this , I am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and although I have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that I listened , I know well enough that it was not .
If I am to speak the whole truth about my knowledge of love , I will have to stop trying to emulate the transcendant nightingale .
Whether you experienced the passion of desire I have , of course , no way of knowing , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that one constitutes by one's mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one's parents' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
Said : `` There are things I must tell you about this man you are marrying which he does not know himself '' .
I fled , however , not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise from you that the things about my bridegroom -- in the sense you meant the word `` things '' -- which you had been galvanizing yourself to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which I had already insisted upon finding out for myself ( despite , I may now say , the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle , yes , on principle , and in cold blood ) because I was resolved , as a modern woman , not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize Life by the throat .
Just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside of the leaf of love , memory , displeased at being asked to yield its unsavory secrets , dashed ahead of me , calling back over its shoulder : `` Skip it .
However , I confess my hope that I will be innocent again , not with a pristine , accidental innocence , but rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh to reach the bone .
The innocence of which I speak is , I know , not incorruptible .
To you , for instance , the word innocence , in this connotation , probably retained its Biblical , or should I say technical sense , and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear by saying that I lost -- or rather handed over -- what you would have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled , and in fact by oath required , to hand it over along with what other goods and bads I had .
I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my trust in you , but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved , through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
A lady , you made clear to me both by precept and example , never raised her voice or slumped in her chair , never failed in social tact ( in heaven , for instance , would not mention St. John the Baptist's head ) , never pouted or withdrew or scandalized in company , never reminded others of her physical presence by unseemly sound or gesture , never indulged in public scenes or private confidences , never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering , never gossiped or maligned , never stressed but always minimized the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself .
In due time Sandburg was a walking thesaurus of American folk music .
After he had finished the first two volumes of his Lincoln , Sandburg went to work assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the memory of songs others had taught him .
The result was a collection of 280 songs , ballads , ditties , brought together from all regions of America , more than one hundred never before published : The American Songbag .
As Sandburg said at the time : `` It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to the Appalachian Mountains , it is as modern as skyscrapers , the Volstead Act , and the latest oil well gusher '' .
At age seventy-four , he became what he shyly terms a `` pupil '' of Andres Segovia , the great guitarist of the Western world .
I am certain that Carl Sandburg will not fall into the same sad philosophy .
The public's identification of Carl Sandburg and the guitar is no happenstance .
He is proud of having Segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him titled `` The Guitar '' .
The New York Herald Tribune's photographer , Ira Rosenberg , tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a picture of Carl playing a guitar .
They went to the pawnshop of Joseph Miller of 1162 Sixth Avenue .
`` Mr. Miller was in the shop '' , the Herald Tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody's picture taken inside , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures .
`` But after introductions he asked : ' Carl Sandburg ? ?
`` He wanted Mr. Sandburg to pose with one of the guitars he had displayed behind glass in the center of his shop , but the poet eyed this somewhat distastefully .
`` He chose one from Mr. Miller's window , a plain guitar with no fancy polish .
While the picture was taken , Mr. Miller's disposition to be generous to Mr. Sandburg increased to the point where he advised , ' I won't even charge you the one dollar rental fee ' '' .
When someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to be a celebrity , Carl said , `` A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery with celerity '' .
Lloyd Lewis wrote that when he first knew Carl in 1916 , Sandburg was making $27.50 a week writing features for the Day Book and eating sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants .
Carl thought the question over slowly and answered : `` I know a starving man who is fed never remembers all the pangs of his starvation , I know that '' .
In answer to a New York Times query on what is fame ( `` Thoughts On Fame '' , October 23 , 1960 ) , Carl said : `` Fame is a figment of a pigment .
The impression you get from Carl Sandburg's home is one of laughter and happiness ; ;
Through all these years , Mrs. Sandburg has pointedly avoided the limelight .
Mrs. Sandburg received a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy writing and teaching when she met Sandburg .
`` You are the ' Peoples' Poet ' '' was her appraisal in 1908 , and she stopped teaching and writing to devote herself to the fulfillment of her husband's career .
She has rarely been photographed with him and , except for Carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in Chicago in 1953 , she has not attended the dozens of banquets , functions , public appearances , and dinners honoring him -- all of this upon her insistence .
The only way to describe Paula Sandburg is to say she is beautiful in a Grecian sense .
She designed and supervised the building of the Harbert , Michigan , house , most of which was constructed by one local carpenter who carried the heavy beams singly upon his shoulder .
When erosion threatened the foundation of their home in Harbert , Paula Sandburg planted grapevines and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away .
She was born Lilian Steichen , her parents immigrants from Luxemburg .
Her mother called her Paus'l , a Luxemburg endearment meaning `` pussycat '' .
Some of the children of the family could not pronounce this name and called her Paula , a soubriquet Carl liked so much she has been Paula ever since .
Her parents , pious Roman Catholics , christened her Mary Anne Elizabeth Magdalene Steichen .
`` My mother read a book right after I was born and there was a Lilian in the book she loved and I became Lilian -- and eventually I became Paula '' .
Paula's older brother is Edward Steichen , a talented artist and , for the past half-century , one of the world's eminent photographers .
( Two years ago the photography editor of Vogue Magazine titled his article about Steichen , `` The World's Greatest Photographer '' .
The parents compromised , however , on a convent school and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London , Ontario .
She was pious , too , once kneeling through the night from Holy Thursday to Good Friday , despite the protest of the nuns that this was too much for a young girl .
She knelt out of reverence for having read the Meditations of St. Augustine .
She read everything else she could get her hands on , including an article ( she thinks it was in the Atlantic Monthly ) by Mark Twain on `` White Slavery '' .
She passed the entrance examinations to the University of Illinois , but during the year at Urbana felt more important events transpired at the University of Chicago .
`` And besides , Thorstein Veblen was one of the Chicago professors '' .
At the University of Chicago she studied Whitman and Shelley , and became a Socialist .
Socialist leaders in Milwaukee recognized her worth , not only because of her dedication but because of her fluency in German , French , and Luxemburg .
She once gave a German recitation before a convention of German-language teachers in Milwaukee .
Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee in 1907 during Paula's Christmas holiday visit to her parents .
Carl was still Charles A. Sandburg .
He `` legitimized '' Paula for Lilian Steichen , and it was Paula who insisted on Carl for Charles .
Victor Berger , the panjandrum of Wisconsin Socialism and member of Congress , had asked Paula Steichen to translate some of his German editorials into English .
Carl , who was stationed in Appleton , Wisconsin , organizing for the Social Democrats , was in Berger's office and made it his business to escort Paula to the streetcar .
She left the next day for her teaching job at Princeton , Illinois .
( After graduation from the University of Chicago , Paula taught for two years in the normal school at Valley City , North Dakota , then two years at Princeton ( Illinois ) Township High School .
Paula says that even though Carl's letters usually began , `` Dear Miss Steichen '' , there was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband and wife .
Paula generously lent me one of Carl's love letters , dated February 21 , 1908 , Hotel Athearn , Oshkosh , Wisconsin :
`` Dear Miss Steichen : It is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying on up here .
Never until in this work of S-D organization have I realized and felt the attitude and experience of a Teacher .
The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet Union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that may lead to peace with justice .
Certainly it is not necessary to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering in the internal affairs of any nation ; ;
Growing out of this concern is the realization that all people of the Free World have a great stake in the progress , in freedom , of the uncommitted and newly emerging nations .
In recent years America's partners and friends in Western Europe and Japan have made great economic progress .
No longer is the United States the only major industrial country capable of providing substantial amounts of the resources so urgently needed in the newly developed countries .
To us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary today as never before if we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace .
Continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would , over time , impair our own economic growth and check the forward progress of the Free World .
Further , we must induce all industrialized nations of the Free World to work together to help lift the scourge of poverty from less fortunate .
Through the World Bank and other instrumentalities , as well as through individual action by every nation in position to help , we must squarely face this titanic challenge .
During the past year I have discussed this matter with the leaders of several Western nations .
Because of its wealth of experience , the Organization for European Economic Cooperation could help with the initial studies needed .
The goal is to enlist all available economic resources in the industrialized Free World , especially private investment capital .
It is world-wide knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack the United States by surprise , even though we might sustain great losses , would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction .
But I once again assure all peoples and all nations that the United States , except in defense , will never turn loose this destructive power .
Such performance is a great tribute to American scientists and engineers , who in the past five years have had to telescope time and technology to develop these long-range ballistic missiles , where America had none before .
To meet situations of less than general nuclear war , we continue to maintain our carrier forces , our many service units abroad , our always ready Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions , and the civilian components .
Third , the United States is pressing forward in the development of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space for exploration purposes .
The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires the continuous strengthening of the spiritual , intellectual , and economic sinews of American life .
The group , upon the issuance of its first press release on December 21 , 1957 , designated itself a `` Committee of Investigation '' .
It heard Bang-Jensen twice and his lawyer , Adolf A. Berle , Jr. , once .
It also implied that Paul Bang-Jensen had been irresponsible .
On January 18 , Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U.N. lasting an hour .
This conference was held despite Stavropoulos' assurance to Adolf Berle , who was leaving the same day for Puerto Rico , that nothing would be done until his return on January 22 , except that the Secretary General would probably order the list destroyed .
On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen , accompanied by Adolf Berle , was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel Frank Begley , former Police Chief of Farmington , Conn. , and now head of U.N. special police .
There , Begley lit a fire in a wire basket , and Bang-Jensen dropped four sealed envelopes into the flames .
The method of destroying the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen .
He was right , and Peter Marshall could not help but recall Andrew Cordier's words on the subject , `` Well , it seemed as good a place as any to do the job '' .
The Gross group had been formed for the express purpose of advising the Secretary General .
Hammarskjold's supposed desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of Ernest Gross is illusion , at best .
But by the time the papers were finally disposed of , the group had informed the world of its purpose , its recommendations , and its belief that Paul Bang-Jensen was not of sound mind .
Shortly the group would issue its report to the Secretary General , recommending Paul Bang-Jensen's dismissal from the United Nations .
`` Until this Hungarian Committee matter came up , Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual .
Ernest A. Gross leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen's conduct `` relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary '' .
The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared by Gross , as chairman , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes .
`` Yes '' , Gross went on , `` Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man .
Outside the office windows , twenty-four stories above Wall Street , a light rain was falling .
`` Mr. Gross , your report says that ' our function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate from or prejudice Mr. Bang-Jensen's rights as a staff member .
We were given a job and we carried it out , and later , his case was taken up by the Disciplinary Committee .
We did our job , Mr. Stavropoulos and Mr. De Seynes and myself , taking evidence from a number of people '' .
`` I've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy stories about personnel difficulties , so I know what a problem he was '' .
`` What I'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled at your Committee '' .
`` For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation .
You know Bang-Jensen was told the Committee was ' to convey its views , suggestions and recommendations to the Secretary General .
In his own words , Bang-Jensen ' took it for granted that the Group would report to the Secretary General privately and not in public .
`` Well , as a matter of fact , I've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for December , 1957 , and haven't found a great deal '' --
`` It wasn't necessarily all here in New York .
As far as I'm concerned , it was a separate matter from the general Committee study of Bang-Jensen's conduct .
The January fifteen report recommended that Bang-Jensen be instructed to burn the list -- the papers -- in the presence of a U.N. Security Officer '' .
If Hammarskjold had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner , and if Bang-Jensen had not wanted it -- who had ordered it ? ?
`` Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; ;
as I understand it , Mr. Hammarskjold wanted outside advice .
Mr. Stavropoulos is the U.N. legal chief and a very good man , but he is not fully versed on some technical points of American law '' .
`` Why , Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing Andersen , trying to check them out .
Even after the incident between Bang-Jensen and Shann in the Delegates' Lounge and this was not the way the Chicago Tribune presented it '' .
One was an article on the U.N. by Alice Widener from the Cincinnati Enquirer .
The other was by Chesly Manley in the Chicago Daily Tribune .
There wasn't any ' violent argument ' between Bang-Jensen and Shann , as the Tribune puts it .
And after all this , Shann went over all that Bang-Jensen had brought up '' .
( Shann's own report , Peter Marshall reflected , describes the encounter as `` immoderate '' .
When I speak of how Shann felt , I know well .
Don't forget , the U.N. did no more than the United States did .
from the home of his friend , Henrik Kauffmann , in Washington , D.C. , Paul Bang-Jensen sent a telegram dated December 9 , 1957 , to Ernest Gross .
It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. .
There , Ernest Gross further assured him :
`` We were requested by the Secretary General , as I understand it , to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat .
Peter Marshall noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with the Gross group as `` unfortunate experiences '' , and after his second meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings without legal counsel .
J. A. C. Robertson , after serving Gross one week , left for England .
In spite of Pickering Dodge's explicit instructions regarding variation of meals , the food did not seem the same as at home .
`` Everything tasted differently from what it does on land and those things I was most fond of at home , I loathed the most here '' , Ann noted .
It was much more fun , reminding the girls of their old carefree days in the Hasseltine frolics room at Bradford .
By now she was sure she was going to have a baby , deciding it would be born in India or Burma that November .
The crew of the Caravan never failed to amaze Ann , who during her stay in Salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language .
She wrote in her journal , `` I have not heard the least profane language since I have been on board the vessel .
Even the first wave of homesickness had passed , although there were moments when Captain Heard pointed out on his compass the direction of Bradford that she felt a little twinge at her heart .
On Sundays , with the permission of Captain Heard , who usually attended with two of his officers , services were held in the double cabin .
Captain Heard did not communicate with any strange vessels because of the possibility of war between the United States and Britain .
As warmer temperatures were encountered Ann and Harriet were introduced to the pleasures of bathing daily in salt water .
When May came the Caravan had already crossed the Equator .
They were sailing round the Cape of Good Hope ; ;
At this time Harriet wrote in a letter which after their finally landing in India was sent to her mother :
`` I care not how soon we reach Calcutta , and are placed in a still room , with a bowl of milk and a loaf of Indian bread .
While studying at the seminary in Andover , Adoniram had been working on a New Testament translation from the original Greek .
Born a Congregationalist , he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having a few drops of water sprinkled on his head , yet nowhere in the whole of the New Testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized by sprinkling .
John the Baptist used total immersion in the River Jordan for believers ; ;
The more Adoniram looked at the Greek word for baptism , the more unhappy he became over its true meaning .
As was only natural he confided his searchings to Ann , conceding ruefully that it certainly looked as if their own Congregationalists were wrong and the Baptists right .
By this time she had learned that it was futile to argue with her young husband , yet the uncomfortable fact remained : the American Congregationalists were sending them as missionaries to the Far East and paying their salaries .
Baptists and Congregationalists in New England were on friendly terms .
How embarrassing it would be if the newly appointed Congregationalist missionaries should suddenly switch their own beliefs in order to embrace Baptist teachings ! !
`` If you become a Baptist , I will not '' , Ann informed her husband , but sweeping her threat aside Adoniram continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he found himself .
By early June they were a hundred miles off the coast of Ceylon , by which time all four missionaries were hardened seafarers .
Even Harriet could boldly write , `` I know not how it is ; ;
Land was near , and on June 12 , one hundred and fourteen days after leaving America , they actually saw , twenty miles away , the coast of Orissa .
Captain Heard gave orders for the ship to be anchored in the Bay of Bengal until he could obtain the services of a reputable pilot to steer her through the shallow waters .
Sometimes ships waited for days for such a man , but Captain Heard was lucky .
Next day a ship arrived with an English pilot , his leadsman , an English youth , and the first Hindu the Judsons and Newells had ever seen .
Next morning the Caravan was out of the treacherous Bay .
Slowly she moved up the Hooghli River , a mouth of the mighty Ganges , toward Calcutta .
`` On each side of the Hoogli , where we are now sailing , are the Hindoo cottages , as thick together as the houses in our seaports .
At last they saw Calcutta , largest city of Bengal and the Caravan's destination .
Founded August 24 , 1690 by Job Charnock of the East India Company , and commonly called `` The City of Palaces '' , it seemed a vast and elegant place to Ann Hasseltine Judson .
Ann , pleased to see her friend happy , was intrigued by the new fruits a friend of Captain Heard had sent on board for their enjoyment .
The first act of Adoniram and Samuel on reaching Calcutta was to report at the police station , a necessity when landing in East India Company territory .
On the way they tried to discover all they could about Burma , and they were disturbed to find that Michael Symes's book had not presented an altogether true picture .
They were in fact quietly laughing at him , for their King wished to have nothing to do with the Western world .
When Captain John Gibault of Salem had visited Burma in 1793 his ship , the Astra , had been promptly commandeered and taken by her captors up the Irrawaddy River .
All Captain Gibault took back to Salem were a few items for the town's East India Museum .
A year later another Salem ship returned from Burma with a cargo of gum lacquer which nobody wanted to buy .
After that Salem ships decided to bypass unfriendly Burma .
The Burmese appeared to have little knowledge of British power or any idea of trade .
As for missionaries , even if they succeeded in getting into the country they probably would not be allowed to preach the Christian faith to the Burmans .
`` Go back to America or any other place '' , well-meaning friends of Captain Heard advised them , `` but put thoughts of going to Burma out of your heads '' .
When he discovered they had received from the Company's Court of Directors no permission to live in India , coupled with the fact that they were Americans who had been sent to Asia to convert `` the heathen '' , he became more belligerent than ever .
They explained that they desired only to stop in India until a ship traveling on to Burma could be found .
The reasons for the Whig joy on this occasion are found to be their expectation of regaining control of the government , their delight at the prospect of a new war , their hopes of having the Tories hanged , and so on .
As for the author of the Englishman , Mrs. Manley sarcastically deplores that the sole defense of the Protestant cause should be left to `` Ridpath , Dick Steele , and their Associates , with the Apostles of Young Man's Coffee-House '' .
Another controversy typical of the war between the Englishman and the Examiner centered on Robert ( later Viscount ) Molesworth , a Whig leader in Ireland and a member of the Irish Privy Council .
On December 21 , the day that the Irish House of Commons petitioned for removal of Sir Constantine Phipps , their Tory Lord Chancellor , Molesworth reportedly made this remark on the defense of Phipps by Convocation : `` They that have turned the world upside down , are come hither also '' .
Upon complaints from the Lower House of Convocation to the House of Lords , he was removed from the Privy Council , his remark having been represented as a blasphemous affront to the clergy .
Steele , who had earlier praised Molesworth in Tatler No. 189 , now defended him in Englishman No. 46 , depicting his removal as a setback to the Constitution .
On the other hand , Molesworth was naturally assailed in the Tory press .
Swift , in the Dublin edition of A Preface to the Bishop of Sarum's Introduction , indicated his feelings by including Molesworth , along with Toland , Tindal , and Collins , in the group of those who , like Burnet , are engaged in attacking all Convocations of the clergy .
In the same way he coupled Molesworth and Wharton in a letter to Archbishop King , and he had earlier described him as `` the worst of them '' in some `` Observations '' on the Irish Privy Council submitted to Oxford .
A month later , in The Publick Spirit Of The Whigs , he used Steele's defense of Molesworth as evidence of his disrespect for the clergy , calling Steele's position an affront to the `` whole Convocation of Ireland '' .
On this issue , then , as on so many in these months , Steele and Swift took rigidly opposed points of view .
In the early months of 1714 , the battle between Swift and Steele over the issue of the Succession entered its major phase .
The preliminaries ended with the publication of Steele's Crisis on January 19 , and from that point on the fight proceeded at a rapid pace .
In answer to The Crisis , Swift produced The Publick Spirit Of The Whigs , his most extensive and bitter attack on his old friend .
By this time , as we shall see , the Tories were already planning to `` punish '' Steele for his political writing by expelling him from the House of Commons .
Despite his defense of himself in the final paper of the Englishman and in his speech before the House , their efforts were successful .
Steele lost his seat in Parliament , and his personal quarrel with Swift , by now a public issue , thus reached its climax .
Of all the Whig tracts written in support of the Succession , The Crisis is perhaps the most significant .
Steele's main business here is to arouse public opinion to the immediate danger of a Stuart Restoration .
To this end , the first and longest section of the tract cites all the laws enacted since the Revolution to defend England against the `` Arbitrary Power of a Popish Prince '' .
In his comment on these laws Steele sounds all the usual notes of current Whig propaganda , ranging from a criticism of the Tory peace to an attack on the dismissal of Marlborough ; ;
but his principal theme is that the intrigues of the Tories , `` our Popish or Jacobite Party '' , pose an immediate threat to Church and State .
Treasonable books striking at the Hanoverian Succession , he complains , are allowed to pass unnoticed .
In this connection , Swift , too , is drawn in for attack : `` The Author of The Conduct Of The Allies has dared to drop Insinuations about altering the Succession '' .
In his effort to stir the public from its lethargy , Steele goes so far as to list Catholic atrocities of the sort to be expected in the event of a Stuart Restoration , and , with rousing rhetoric , he asserts that the only preservation from these `` Terrours '' is to be found in the laws he has so tediously cited .
`` It is no time '' , he writes , `` to talk with Hints and Innuendos , but openly and honestly to profess our Sentiments before our Enemies have compleated and put their Designs in Execution against us '' .
In the final issues of the Englishman , which ended just as the new session of Parliament began , he provided his enemies with still more ammunition .
For example , No. 56 printed the patent giving the Electoral Prince the title of Duke of Cambridge .
In a few months the Duke was to be the center of a controversy of some significance on the touchy question of the Protestant Succession .
At the order of the Dowager Electress , the Hanoverian agents , supported by the Whig leaders , demanded that a writ of summons be issued which would call the Duke to England to sit in Parliament , thus further insuring the Succession by establishing a Hanoverian Prince in England before the Queen's death .
Accordingly the request was granted , but the Elector himself , who had not been consulted by his mother , rejected the proposal and recalled his agent Schutz , whose impolitic handling of the affair had caused the Hanoverian interest to suffer and had made Oxford's dismissal more likely than ever .
A few days after this Englishman appeared , Defoe reported to Oxford that Steele was expected to move in Parliament that the Duke be called over ; ;
Defoe then commented , `` If they Could Draw that young Gentleman into Their Measures They would show themselves quickly , for they are not asham'd to Say They want only a head to Make a beginning '' .
The final issue of the Englishman , No. 57 for February 15 , ran to some length and was printed as a separate pamphlet , entitled The Englishman : Being the Close of the Paper So-called .
His birth , education , and fortune , he says , have all been ridiculed simply because he has spoken with the freedom of an Englishman , and he assures the reader that `` whoever talks with me , is speaking to a Gentleman born '' .
As notable examples of this abuse , he quotes passages from the Examiner , `` that Destroyer of all things '' , and The Character of Richard Steele , which he here attributes to Swift .
His point is simply that the Tories have showered him with personal satire , despite the fact that as a private subject he has a right to speak on political matters without affronting the prerogative of the Sovereign .
He claims , too , that his political convictions are simply those which are called `` Revolution Principles '' and which are accepted by moderate men in both parties .
The final section of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's relations with Swift .
It purports to be a letter from Steele to a friend at court , who , in Miss Blanchard's opinion , could only be meant as Swift .
Steele first answers briefly the charges which his `` dear old Friend '' has made about his pamphlet on Dunkirk and his Crisis .
Then he launches into an attack on the Tory ministers , whom he calls the `` New Converts '' ; ;
by this term he means to ridicule their professions of acting in the interest of the Church despite their own education and manner of life -- a gibe , in other words , at the `` Presbyterianism '' in Harley's family and at Bolingbroke's reputed impiety .
The Tory leaders , he insinuates , are cynically using the Church as a political `` By-word '' to increase party friction and keep themselves in power .
This is the principal point made in this final section of Englishman No. 57 , and it caps Steele's efforts in his other writing of these months to counteract the notion of the Tories as a `` Church Party '' supported by the body of the clergy .
Next , Steele turns his attention to the `` Courtier '' he is addressing .
If `` Jack the Courtier '' is really to be taken as Swift , the following remark is obviously Steele's comment on Swift's change of parties and its effect on their friendship : `` I assure you , dear Jack , when I first found out such an Allay in you , as makes you of so malleable a Constitution , that you may be worked into any Form an Artificer pleases , I foresaw I should not enjoy your Favour much longer '' .
He closes his `` letter '' by demanding that Dunkirk be demolished , that the Pretender be forced to move farther away from the coast of England , and that the Queen and the House of Hanover come to a better understanding .
The Examiner , during Steele's trial a month later , printed an answer from the `` Courtier '' addressed to `` R. S. '' at Button's coffee-house .
Once more , in other words , Steele is said to be indebted to Swift for his `` wit '' ; ;
In The Publick Spirit of the Whigs , it may be noted , Swift himself contemptuously dismissed Steele's reference to his friend at court : `` I suppose by the Style of old Friend , and the like , it must be some Body there of his own Level ; ;
among whom , his Party have indeed more Friends than I could wish '' .
On February 16 , Steele took his seat in Parliament .
By now he was undergoing a fresh torrent of abuse from Tory papers and pamphlets , and action was being taken to effect his punishment by expulsion from Parliament .
On the very day that the parliamentary session began , another `` Infamous Libel '' appeared , entitled A Letter From The Facetious Dr. Andrew Tripe , At Bath , To The Venerable Nestor Ironside .
in the opening paragraph , too , Steele is accused of extreme egotism , of giving `` himself the preference to all the learned , his contemporaries , from Dr. Swift himself , even down to Poet Cr--spe of the Customhouse '' .
When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944 , it was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer , begun some years before .
The film they did after his return was an inconsequential bit of nothing titled Out Of This World , a satire on the Sinatra bobby-soxer craze .
The twist lay in using Bing Crosby's voice on the sound track while leading man Eddie Bracken mouthed the words .
If nothing else , at least two good songs came out of the project , `` Out Of This World '' and `` June Comes Around Every Year '' .
Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting songs , Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on .
Early in 1941 they were assigned to a script titled Hot Nocturne .
He was born in Savannah , Georgia , in 1909 .
His father , George A. Mercer , was descended from an honored Southern family that could trace its ancestry back to one Hugh Mercer , who had emigrated from Scotland in 1747 .
His second wife , Lillian , was the mother of John H. Mercer .
One day he followed the Irish Jasper Greens , the town band , to a picnic and spent the entire day listening , while his family spent the day looking .
But one afternoon Mrs. Mercer met her ; ;
The mother inquired , `` Where's Johnny , and why did you leave him '' ? ?
But Mrs. Mercer demanded more .
Still , he did like music making and even sang in the chapel choir of the Woodberry Forest School , near Orange , Virginia , where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well .
When he was fifteen John H. Mercer turned out his first song , a jazzy little thing he called `` Sister Susie , Strut Your Stuff '' .
From his playmates in Savannah , Mercer had picked up , along with a soft Southern dialect , traces also of the Gullah dialects of Africa .
`` We'd give him things to deliver , letters , checks , deeds and things like that '' , remembers his half-brother Walter , still in the real estate business in Savannah , `` and learn days later that he'd absent-mindedly stuffed them into his pocket .
But Mercer's explanation was simple : `` I made out the check and carried it around a few days unsigned -- in case I lost it '' .
When the troupe traveled to New York to participate in a one-act-play competition -- and won -- Mercer , instead of returning with the rest of the company in triumph , remained in New York .
But Mercer hung on , living , after a fashion , in a Greenwich Village fourth-flight walk-up .
A story , no doubt apocryphal , for Mercer himself denies it , has him sporting a monacle in those Village days .
Everett Miller , then assistant director for the Garrick Gaieties , a Theatre Guild production , needed a lyricist for a song he had written ; ;
For him Mercer produced the lyric to `` Out Of Breath Scared To Death Of You '' , introduced in that most successful of all the Gaieties , by Sterling Holloway .
This 1930 edition also had songs in it by Vernon Duke and Ira Gershwin , by E. Y. Harburg and Duke , and by Harry Myers .
Entrance into such stellar song writing company encouraged the burgeoning song writer to take a wife , Elizabeth Meehan , a dancer in the Gaieties .
The Mercers took up residence in Brooklyn , and Mercer found a regular job in Wall Street `` misplacing stocks and bonds '' .
When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys , Mercer applied and got the job , `` not for my voice , I'm sure , but because I could write songs and material generally '' .
While with the Whiteman band Mercer met Jerry Arlen .
He had yet to meet Harold Arlen , for although they had `` collaborated '' on `` Satan's Li'l Lamb '' , Mercer and Harburg had worked from a lead sheet the composer had furnished them .
Mercer's Whiteman association brought him into contact with Hoagy Carmichael , whose `` Snowball '' Mercer relyriced as `` Lazybones '' , in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning of Mercer's song-writing career .
After leaving Whiteman , Mercer joined the Benny Goodman band as a vocalist .
With the help of Ziggy Elman , also in the band , he transformed a traditional Jewish melody into a popular song , `` And The Angels Sing '' .
The countrywide success of `` Lazybones '' and `` And The Angels Sing '' could only lead to Hollywood , where , besides Harold Arlen , Mercer collaborated with Harry Warren , Jimmy Van Heusen , Richard Whiting , Walter Donaldson , Jerome Kern , and Arthur Schwartz .
He may be the only song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the U. S. Treasury ; ;
he collaborated on a song with William Hartman Woodin , who was Secretary of the Treasury , 1932-33 .
When Johnny Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940 , Mercer , like Arlen , had several substantial film songs to his credit , among them `` Hooray For Hollywood '' , `` Ride , Tenderfoot , Ride '' , `` Have You Got Any Castles , Baby ? ?
'' , and `` Too Marvelous For Words '' ( all with Richard Whiting ) ; ;
with Harry Warren he did `` The Girl Friend Of The Whirling Dervish '' , `` Jeepers Creepers '' , and `` You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby '' .
His casual , dreamlike working methods , often as not in absentia , were an abrupt change from Harburg's , so that Arlen had to adjust again to another approach to collaboration .
Speaking of his work with Johnny Mercer , Arlen says , `` Our working habits were strange .
While Johnny made himself comfortable on the couch , I'd play the tunes for him .
Arlen is one of the few ( possibly the only ) composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely , for they held their meetings in Arlen's study .
`` I couldn't write with them in the same room with me , but I could with Harold .
While Arlen and Mercer collaborated on Hot Nocturne , Mercer worked also with Arthur Schwartz on another film , Navy Blues .
Arlen , too , worked on other projects at the same time with old friend Ted Koehler .
Besides doing a single song , `` When The Sun Comes Out '' , they worked on the ambitious American-Negro Suite , for voices and piano , as well as songs for films .
The American-Negro Suite is in a sense an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection of Negro songs , not for a night club , but for the concert stage .
The work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which Koehler set the words `` There'll be no more work ; ;
This grew into the song `` Big Time Comin' '' .
By September 1940 the Suite had developed into a collection of six songs , `` four spirituals , a dream , and a lullaby '' .
The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied the American-Negro Suite and said of it , `` Of all the many songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid idiom in both words and music , these six songs by Harold Arlen and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest .
Thoroughly modern in treatment , they are at the same time , full of simple sincerity which invariably characterizes genuine Negro folk-music and are by no means to be confused with the average ' Broadway Spirituals ' which depend for their racial flavor upon sundry allusions to the ' Amen Corner ' , ' judgement Day , ' Gabriel's Horn , and a frustrated devil -- with a few random hallelujahs thrown in for good measure .
It was here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role during the children's party .
It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he be back in an hour or two to continue his convalescence .
Arthur Robinson traveled with the baseball clubs as staff correspondent for the American .
He was ghost writer for Babe Ruth , whose main talent for literary composition was the signing of his autograph .
He arrived on crutches at the Newspaper Club with one of his great pals , Oliver Herford , artist , author , and foe of stupidity .
In the jakes , after Robbie and his crutches were properly stowed , Mr. Herford went to the adjoining facility .
May I say that you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb -- the younger Pliny's , if memory serves me -- which , translated freely from the archaic Latin , says , ' The more haste , the less peed ' '' .
Governor Alfred E. Smith was the official host at the children's party .
United States Senator Royal S. Copeland was wearing the robes of Santa Claus and a great white beard ; ;
the Honorable Robert Wagner , Sr. , at that time a justice of the New York Supreme Court , was on the reception committee .
Even earlier than that he had resented the fact that I had been chosen to edit the club's Reporter .
City editor Victor Watson of the New York American was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious shifts of mood .
Mr. Hearst's telegraphic code word for Victor Watson was `` fatboy '' .
The staff saw in him the qualities of a Don Cossack , hence , as mentioned before , his nickname `` the Hetman '' .
Indeed , he looked more like a well-fleshed lay brother of the Hospice of St. Bernard .
He was the son of a Scottish father and an American Jewish mother , long widowed , with whom he lived in a comfortable home in Flushing .
From the very first he regarded himself as Mr. Hearst's disciple , defender , and afterward his prime minister , self-ordained .
It was said that the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire one day by means of various coups : the destruction of editors who tried to halt his course , the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr. Hearst .
Among the outstanding members of the Hearst cabinet whom he successfully opposed for a time were the great Arthur Brisbane , Bradford Merrill , S.S. Carvalho , and Colonel Van Hamm .
He also disliked Runyon , for no good reason other than the fact that the Demon's talent was so marked as to put him well beyond the Hetman's say-so or his supervision .
Runyon , for his part , had a contemptuous regard for Mr. Watson .
`` He's a wrong-o '' , said Runyon , `` and I wouldn't trust him as far as I could throw the Statue of Liberty '' .
Arthur `` Bugs '' Baer wrote to me just recently , `` Vic wanted to die in harness , with his head towards the wagon .
One day he assigned me to lay bare a `` plot '' by the Duponts to supply munitions to a wholly fictitious revolution he said was about to occur in Cuba .
Then I spent the next two days at the baseball park and at Jack Doyle's pool parlors .
When I returned to make my report , the Hetman did not remember having sent me on the secret mission .
One day I tired of following the Hetman's advice of `` shadowing '' and of the `` ring-around-the-rosie '' approach to a report that Enrico Caruso had pinched a lady's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey house .
I explained my state of mind to artist Winsor McCay and to `` Bugs '' Baer .
Mr. Baer obtained a supply of crepe hair and spirit-gum from an actor at the Friars .
Mr. Baer had an auburn beard , like Longfellow's .
Mr. McCay had on a sort of Emperor Maximilian beard and mustache .
`` We are ready for your next mysterious assignment '' , said Mr. Baer to the Hetman .
While I was sitting at one of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard , Arthur Brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand .
He campaigned successfully for the riddance of `` Death Avenue '' and also brought about the ending of pollution of metropolitan beaches by sewage .
He exposed the bucket-shop racket with the able assistance of two excellent reporters , Nat Ferber and Carl Helm .
It seems to me now , in a long backward glance , that many of the Hetman's conceits and odd actions -- together with his grim posture when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr. Hearst -- were keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day .
Alone , rejected on every hand , divorced , and in financial trouble , he leaped from an eleventh-floor window of the Abbey Hotel in 1937 .
Much to Damon Runyon's amazement , as well as my own , I got along splendidly with the Hetman ; ;
Not long after Colonel Van Hamm had foisted me on the Watson staff I received a salary raise and a contract on the Hetman's recommendation .
During the next years he gave me the second of the five contracts I would sign with the Hearst Service .
Somehow I think that Watson paid more attention to me than he otherwise might have because his foe , Colonel Van Hamm , wouldn't touch me with a ten-foot blue pencil .
I remember one day when Mr. Hearst ( and I never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the Hetman a telegram : `` Please find some more reporters like that young man from Denver '' .
Watson showed this wire to Colonel Van Hamm .
Sergeant Mike Donaldson , Congressional Medal of Honor soldier , was one of them .
Dr. Menas S. Gregory was another .
I used to go with Watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment , to sit among the doctor's excellent collection of statues , paintings , and books and drink Oriental coffee while Watson seemed to thaw out and become almost affable .
I cannot remember Dr. Gregory's reply , if , indeed , he made one .
Sometimes , Mrs. Coolidge would close herself in the Green Suite on the second floor , and play the piano she had brought to the White House .
All the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic loss , even though the President tried harder than ever to make his little dry jokes and to tease the people around him .
A little boy came to give the President his personal condolences , and the President gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be shown in .
Backstairs , the maids cried a little over that , and the standing invitation was not mentioned to Mrs. Coolidge .
The President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been before the tragedy .
Dresses were short in the days of Mrs. Coolidge , and Spanish shawls were thrown over them .
Mama always felt that the collection symbolized Mrs. Coolidge's wish for a little girl .
Among the dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady , who would pick it up and look at it often .
An accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope was a name for Mrs. Coolidge's first granddaughter .
Mama knew this doll was meant to help Mrs. Coolidge overcome her grief by turning her eyes to the future .
Mrs. Coolidge would knit , and the President would sit reading , or playing with the many pets around them .
Now and then , the President would call for `` Little Jack , Master of the Hounds '' , which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House since Teddy Roosevelt's administration , and discuss the welfare of some one of the animals .
It was part of Little Jack's work to look after the dogs .
One White House dog was immortalized in a painting .
That was Rob Roy , who posed with Mrs. Coolidge for the portrait by Howard Chandler Christy .
To get him to pose , Mrs. Coolidge would feed him candy , so he enjoyed the portrait sessions as well as she did .
I would like to straighten out a misconception about the dress Mrs. Coolidge is wearing in this painting .
Mrs. Coolidge gave Mama this dress for me , and I wore it many times .
I still have the dress , and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution as a memento , or , as I more fondly hope , to present it to a museum containing articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents -- if I can get it organized .
But to get back to the Coolidge household , Mrs. Coolidge so obviously loved dogs , that the public sent her more dogs -- Calamity Jane , Timmy , and Blackberry .
He showed them what to do , and taught them how to keep the maids around the White House in a state of terror .
Mama didn't know what to do -- whether to tell on Rob Roy or not -- since she had the ear of Mrs. Coolidge more than the other maids .
But she was afraid the First Lady would not understand , because Rob Roy was a perfect angel with the First Family .
Every day , when the President took his nap , Rob Roy would stretch out on the window seat near him , like a perfect gentleman , and stare thoughtfully out the window , or he would take a little nap himself .
Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to his office every morning .
Rob Roy was well aware of the importance of this mission , and he would walk in front of the President , looking neither to the right nor to the left .
At dinner , lunch , or breakfast , the President would call out , `` Supper '' ! !
They would all lie around on the rug during the meal , a very pretty sight as Rob Roy , Prudence , and Calamity Jane were all snow-white .
When Prudence and Blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry .
Mama tried to talk to them and keep them quiet while she tidied up the sitting room before the First Family returned .
Finally , Mama did mention to Mrs. Coolidge that she felt sorry for the little dogs , and then Mrs. Coolidge decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone , even though her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity .
Mama was now the first maid to Mrs. Coolidge , because Catherine , the previous first maid , had become ill and died .
Mrs. Coolidge chose Mama in her place .
Every First Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship .
For the Coolidges , it was Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Stearns of Boston , Massachusetts , owners of a large department store .
They seemed to be at the White House half the time .
The butlers were amused because when the Stearns were there , the President would say grace at breakfast .
A new bill had been passed under Harding that designated the Government , rather than the President , as the tab-lifter for official meals .
So the President would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting Government officials to attend .
Mama said that if Presidents were supposed to be colorful , Mr. Coolidge certainly made a good president .
The favorite guest of the house , as far as the staff was concerned , was Mr. Wrigley , the chewing gum king .
The White House had chewing gum until it could chew no more , and every Christmas , Mr. Wrigley sent the President a check for $100 , to be divided among all the help .
Another good friend of the Coolidges' was George B. Harvey , who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 1921 to 1923 .
He had been a friend of the Hardings , and continued to be invited by the Coolidges .
The first royalty whom Mama ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania , who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21 , 1926 .
She was not an overnight guest in the White House , but Mr. Ike Hoover , the chief usher , had Mama check her fur coat when she came in , and take care of her needs .
Mama was very patriotic , and one of the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that flew above the White House .
She used to tell me , `` When I stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that way , I have the wonderful , safe feeling that Americans are protected no matter which way the wind blows '' .
Even when Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning for her son , she reached out to help other people in trouble .
He was in and out of Mount Alto Hospital for veterans any number of times .
Taking a personal interest , she had the doctor assigned to the White House , Dr. James Coupal , look Emmett over .
As a result , he was sent to a hospital in Arizona until his health improved enough for him to come back to Washington to work in the Government service .
But again , there was danger that his lungs would suffer in the muggy Washington weather , and he had to return to the dry climate of the West to live and work .
When Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning , she did not wear black .
On the social side , the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the White House thrilled her the most .
It was her job to stand at the foot of the stairs , and , just as the First Lady stepped off the last tread , Mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to the Blue Room to greet her guests with the President .
She had stood at the bottom of the stairs , as usual , when Mrs. Coolidge came down , in the same dress that is now in the Smithsonian , to greet her guests .
She looked up and saw that , without knowing it , Mrs. Coolidge was holding it aloft .
Mrs. Coolidge looked down , saw Mama's horrified expression and quickly let the whole thing fall to the floor .
The Coolidges did not always live at the White House during the Presidency .
Impressive as this enumeration is , it barely hints at the diverse perceptions of Jews , collectively or individually , that have been attested by their Gentile environment .
The genuinely interesting question , then , becomes : What factors determine the degree of realism or distortion in conventional images of Jews ? ?
But General Grant may have been self-victimized .
The anti-Semitism of Hitler owed something to his exposure to the ideology of Lueger's politically successful Christian socialist movement in Vienna .
Undoubtedly one merit of the vast panorama of Gentile conceptions of the Jew unfolded in the present anthology is that it provides a formidable body of material that invites critical examination in terms of reality .
The tasks are briefly indicated by these questions : What are my goals in Gentile-Jewish relations ? ?
My reply is that I associate myself with all those who affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations should contribute to the theory and practice of human dignity .
The basic goal finds partial expression in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , a statement initiated and endorsed by individuals and organizations of many religious and philosophical traditions .
Within this frame of reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the Jews depend upon which Jewish identity is involved , as well as upon the nature of the claim , the characteristics of the claimant , the justifications proposed , and the predispositions of the community decision makers who are called upon to act .
Many public and private controversies will undoubtedly continue to reflect these confusions in the mind and usage of Gentile and Jew .
It is not implied that formal principles and procedures are so firmly entrenched within the public order of the world community or even of free commonwealths that they will control in all circumstances involving Jews and Gentiles during coming years .
The formal position of Americans who identify themselves with one or more of the several identities of the Jewish symbol is already clear ; ;
Let us not confuse the issue by labeling the objective or the method `` psychoanalytic '' , for this is a well established term of art for the specific ideas and procedures initiated by Sigmund Freud and his followers for the study and treatment of disordered personalities .
One , a reservation on the point I have just made , is the phenomenon of pseudo-thinking , pseudo-feeling , and pseudo-willing , which Fromm discussed in The Escape From Freedom .
after all , the large ( and probably unreliable ) Reader's Digest literature on the `` most unforgettable character I ever met '' deals with village grocers , country doctors , favorite if illiterate aunts , and so forth .
both Flugel and Ranyard West deal with the development and nature of conscience , as do such theologians as Niebuhr and Buber .
This , no doubt , is part of what Gilbert Seldes implies when he says of the arts , `` They give form and meaning to life which might otherwise seem shapeless and without sense '' .
F.S.C. Northrop , in his discussion of The `` Functions And Future Of Poetry '' , suggests this : `` One of the things which makes our lives drab and empty and which leaves us , at the end of the day , fatigued and deflated spiritually is the pressure of the taxing , practical , utilitarian concern of common-sense objects .
William Wimsatt and Cleanth Brooks , it seems to me , have a penetrating insight into the way in which this control is effected : `` For if we say poetry is to talk of beauty and love ( and yet not aim at exciting erotic emotion or even an emotion of Platonic esteem ) and if it is to talk of anger and murder ( and yet not aim at arousing anger and indignation ) -- then it may be that the poetic way of dealing with these emotions will not be any kind of intensification , compounding , or magnification , or any direct assault upon the affections at all .
In B. M. Spinley's portrayal of the underprivileged and undereducated youth of London , a salient finding was the inability to postpone gratification , a need to satisfy impulses immediately without the pleasure of anticipation or of savoring the experience .
In a symposium and general exploration of the field of Personal Perception and Interpersonal Behavior the discussion does not touch upon this aspect of the subject , with one possible exception ; ;
The late R. G. Collingwood , a philosopher whose work has proved helpful to many students of literature , once wrote `` : :
We are all , though many of us are snobbish enough to wish to deny it , in far closer sympathy with the art of the music-hall and picture-palace than with Chaucer and Cimabue , or even Shakespeare and Titian .
Thus Burns's `` My love is like a red , red rose '' and Hopkins' `` The thunder-purple sea-beach , plumed purple of Thunder '' although clearly intelligible in content , hardly present ideas of the sort with which we are here concerned .
On the other hand , Arnold's `` The unplumbed , salt , estranging sea '' , taken in its context , certainly does so .
Accordingly we may speak of the Platonism peculiar to Shelley's poems or the type of Stoicism present in Henley's `` Invictus '' , and we may find that describing such Platonism or such Stoicism and contrasting each with other expressions of the same attitude or mode of thought is a difficult and challenging enterprise .
After all , Shelley is no `` orthodox '' or Hellenic Platonist , and even his `` romantic '' Platonism can be distinguished from that of his contemporaries .
Again , Henley's attitude of defiance which colors his ideal of self-mastery is far from characteristic of a Stoic thinker like Marcus Aurelius , whose gentle acquiescence is almost Christian , comparable to the patience expressed in Milton's sonnet on his own blindness .
Let us quote once more from R. G. Collingwood : `` History is properly concerned with the actions of human beings Regarded from the outside , an action is an event or series of events occurring in the physical world ; ;
Perhaps the most powerful and most frequently recurring literary influence on the Western world has been that of the Old and New Testament .
Certainly one of the most important comments that can be made upon the spiritual and cultural life of any period of Western civilization during the past sixteen or seventeen centuries has to do with the way in which its leaders have read and interpreted the Bible .
A contrast of the scripture reading of , let us say , St. Augustine , John Bunyan , and Thomas Jefferson , all three of whom found in such study a real source of enlightenment , can tell us a great deal about these three men and the age that each represented and helped bring to conscious expression .
In much the same way , we recognize the importance of Shakespeare's familarity with Plutarch and Montaigne , of Shelley's study of Plato's dialogues , and of Coleridge's enthusiastic plundering of the writings of many philosophers and theologians from Plato to Schelling and William Godwin , through which so many abstract ideas were brought to the attention of English men of letters .
English philosopher Samuel Alexander's debt to Wordsworth and Meredith is a recent interesting example , as also A. N. Whitehead's understanding of the English romantics , chiefly Shelley and Wordsworth .
Again the student of evolutionary biology will find a fascinating , if to our minds grotesque , anticipation of the theory of chance variations and the natural elimination of the unfit in Lucretius , who in turn seems to have borrowed the concept from the philosopher Empedocles .
`` Suppose you take Mr. Hearst's morning American at $10,000 a year '' , Brisbane proposed .
Of course , if you don't make the American a success , Hearst will have no further use for you '' .
The blue-eyed Watson decided that he would dislike living in New York , and the deal fell through .
Hearst's luck was even poorer when he had a chat with Franklin K. Lane , a prominent California journalist and reform politician , whom he asked for his support .
Lane was still burning because he had narrowly missed election as governor of California in 1902 and laid his defeat to the antagonism of Hearst's San Francisco Examiner .
`` Mr. Lane '' , Hearst said , `` if you ever wish anything that I can do , all you will have to do will be to send me a telegram asking , and it will be done '' .
`` Mr. Hearst '' , Lane replied as he left , `` if you ever get a telegram from me asking you to do anything , you can put the telegram down as a forgery '' .
Hearst took a brief respite to hurry home to New York to become a father .
On April 10 , 1904 , his first child was born , a son named George after the late Senator .
Hearst saw his wife and child , sent a joyful message to his mother in California , and soon returned to Washington , where on April 22 , for the first time , he opened his mouth in Congress .
This was not before the House but before the Judiciary Committee , where he asked for action on one of his pet bills , that calling for an investigation of the coal-railroad monopoly .
Attorney Shearn had worked on this for two years and had succeeded in getting a report supporting his stand from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York .
Hearst had spent more than $60,000 of his own money in the probe , but still Attorney General Knox was quiescent .
Six of the railroads carrying coal to Tidewater from the Pennsylvania fields , Hearst said , not only had illegal agreements with coal operators but owned outright at least eleven mines .
`` The Attorney General has been brooding over that evidence like an old hen on a doorknob for eighteen months '' , Hearst said .
What I want is to have this evidence come before Congress and if the Attorney General does not report it , as I am very sure he won't , as he has refused to do anything of the kind , I then wish that a committee of seven Representatives be appointed with power to take the evidence .
There can be little doubt that there was a conspiracy in Washington , overt or implied , to block anything Hearst wanted , even if it was something good .
He sought to run Congress as he ran his New York American or Journal , a scheme veteran legislators resisted .
For a freshman Congressman to read political Lessons to graybeard Democrats was poor policy for one who needed to make friends .
He soon quarreled with all the party leaders in the House , and came to be regarded with detestation by regular Democrats as a professional radical leading a small pack of obedient terriers whose constant snapping was demoralizing to party discipline .
To old-line Democrats , the Hearst Presidential boom , now in full cry , was the joke of the new century .
Yet no leader had come to the fore who seemed likely to give the puissant T. R. a semblance of a race .
Some preferred Judge Alton B. Parker of New York .
Just when it was needed for the campaign , Hearst Paper No. 8 , the Boston American , began publication .
A Bay State supporter said , `` Mr. Hearst's fight has been helped along greatly by the starting of his paper in Boston '' .
In a story headed , `` Hearst Offers Cash '' , the Republican New York Tribune spread the money rumor , quoting an unnamed `` Hearst supporter '' as saying :
The Hearst men say that if Hearst is nominated , he and his immediate friends will contribute to the Democratic National Committee the sum of $1,500,000 .
It has been a long time since he has seen any campaign money , and when the proposition is laid down to him as the friends of Mr. Hearst are laying it down these days he is quite likely to get aboard the Hearst bandwagon '' .
If anything , the conservative Democrats were more opposed to Hearst than the Republicans .
In his own state of New York , the two Democratic bellwethers , State Leader Hill and Tammany Boss Murphy , were saying nothing openly against Hearst but industriously boosting their own favorites , Murphy being for Cleveland and Hill for Parker .
They had lost twice with the radical Bryan , and were having no part of Hearst , whom they considered more radical than Bryan .
It caused Henry Watterson to sound a blast in his Louisville Courier-Journal :
`` Does any sane Democrat believe that Mr. Hearst , a person unknown even to his constituency and his colleagues , without a word or act in the public life of his country , past or present , that can be shown to be his to commend him , could by any possibility be elected President of the United States ? ?
More splenetic was Senator Edward Carmack of Tennessee , a Parker man .
`` The nomination of Hearst would compass the ruin of the party '' , Carmack said .
`` It would be a disgrace , and , as I have already said to the people of Tennessee , if Hearst is nominated , we may as well pen a dispatch , and send it back from the field of battle : ' All is lost , including our honor ' '' .
A lone pro-Hearst voice from New York City was that of William Devery , who had been expelled as a Tammany leader but still claimed strong influence in his own district .
`` I understand [ Hearst ] is a candidate for Presidential honors '' , Devery said without cracking a smile .
If he's going to the St. Louis convention as a delegate we ought to know it .
Hearst won the Iowa state convention , but ran into a bitter battle in Indiana before losing to Parker , drawing an angry statement from Indiana's John W. Kern :
`` We are menaced for the first time in the history of the Republic by the open and unblushing effort of a multi-millionaire to purchase the Presidential nomination .
As for the paid Hessians from other states , we are here to instruct the Indiana Democracy in their duty , I have nothing but contempt .
Another Indiana observer later commented , `` Perhaps we shall never know how much was spent ( by Hearst ) , but if as much money was expended elsewhere as in Indiana a liberal fortune was squandered '' .
In his fight for the Illinois and Indiana delegations , Hearst made several trips to Chicago to confer with Andrew Lawrence , the former San Francisco Examiner man who was now his Chicago kingpin , and once to meet with Bryan .
On one visit he stopped at the office of the American , where he was known surreptitiously as `` the Great White Chief '' , and for the first time met his managing editor , fat Moses Koenigsberg .
Another editor pointed despairingly at a bundle of letters that had accumulated for him , saying , `` But Mr. Hearst , what shall I do with this correspondence '' ? ?
Hearst hopped into a private railroad car with Max Ihmsen and made an arduous personal canvass for delegates in the western and southern states , always wearing a frock coat , listening intently to local politicians , and generally making a good impression .
But I do not have to be bribed by office to be a Democrat .
I supported Cleveland three times and Bryan twice .
I intend to support the nominee of the party at St. Louis , whoever he may be '' .
The Hearst press followed the Chief's progress at the various state conventions with its usual admiring attention , stressing the `` enthusiasm '' and `` loyalty '' he inspired .
This was historic in its way , for it marked the first time an American Presidential aspirant had advertised his own virtues in his own string of newspapers spanning the land .
When Nan Patterson , a stunning and money-minded chorus girl who had appeared in a Floradora road show , rode down Broadway in a hansom cab with her married lover , Frank Young , she stopped the cab to disclose that Young had been shot dead , tearfully insisting that he had shot himself although experts said he could not have done so .
The confused rambling of guerrilla warfare , such as most of Garibaldi's campaigns were , was brought to life by Trevelyan's pen in some of the best passages in the books .
The outstanding example was in Garibaldi And The Thousand , where he made use of unpublished papers of Lord John Russell and English consular materials to reveal the motives which led the British government to permit Garibaldi to cross the Straits of Messina .
Thus Trevelyan repeats the story which pictured Victor Emmanuel as refusing to abandon the famous Statuto at the insistence of General Radetzky .
Later research has shown this part of the legend of the Re Galantuomo to be false .
Trevelyan accepts Italian nationalism with little analysis , he is unduly critical of papal and French policy , and he is more than generous in assessing British policy .
Trevelyan's Manin And The Venetian Revolution Of 1848 , his last major volume on an Italian theme , was written in a minor key .
Published in 1923 , it did not gain the popular acclaim of the Garibaldi volumes , probably because Trevelyan felt less at home with Manin , the bourgeois lawyer , than with Garibaldi , the filibuster .
Already Trevelyan had begun to parallel his nineteenth-century Italian studies with several works on English figures of the same period .
First The Life Of John Bright appeared and seven years later Lord Grey Of The Reform Bill .
Of the two , The Life Of Bright is incomparably the better biography .
Trevelyan centers too exclusively on Bright , is insufficiently appreciative of the views of Bright's opponents and critics , and makes light of the genuine difficulties faced by Peel .
In the story of Bright and the Corn Law agitation , the Crimean War , the American Civil War , and the franchise struggle Trevelyan reflects something of the moral power which enabled this independent man to exercise so immense an influence over his fellow countrymen for so long .
Associated in a sense with the Manchester School through his mother's family , Trevelyan conveys in this biography something of its moral conviction and drive .
The biography of Lord Grey is strictly speaking not a biography at all .
It is a Whig history of the `` Tory reaction '' which preceded the Reform Bill of 1832 , and it uses the figure of Grey to give some unity to the narrative .
And Grey's Northumberland background was close to Trevelyan's own .
Research in the period of Grey and Bright led naturally to a more ambitious work .
More temperately than in the study of Grey and despite his Liberal bias , Trevelyan vividly sketches the England of pre-French Revolution days , portrays the stresses and strains of the revolutionary period in rich colors , and brings developments leading to the Reform Bill into sharp and clear focus .
Economic analysis was never Trevelyan's strong point and the England of the industrial transformation cries out for economic analysis .
Yet Britain In The Nineteenth Century became the vade mecum of beginning students of history , went through edition after edition , and continues to be reprinted up to the very present .
In 1924 Trevelyan traveled to the United States , where he delivered the Lowell lectures at Harvard University .
These lectures formed the nucleus of a general survey of English development which took form afterward as A History Of England .
The History Of England has often been compared with Green's Short History .
Like Green , Trevelyan aimed to write a history not of `` English kings or English conquests '' , but of the English people .
The History takes too much for granted to serve as a text for other than English schoolboys , and like Britain in the nineteenth century it deteriorates badly as it goes beyond 1870 .
Living pictures of the early boroughs , country life in Tudor and Stuart times , the impact of the industrial revolution compete with sensitive surveys of language and literature , the common law , parliamentary development .
Tolerance and compromise , social justice and civil liberty , are today too often in short supply for one to be overly critical of Trevelyan's emphasis on their central place in the English tradition .
Like most major works of synthesis , The History Of England is informed by the positive views of a first-class mind , and this is surely a major work .
Four years after the publication of The History Of England , the first volume of Trevelyan's Queen Anne trilogy appeared .
By now he had become Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge and had been honored by the award of the Order of Merit .
Blenheim was followed in rapid succession by Ramillies And The Union With Scotland and by The Peace And The Protestant Succession , the three forming together a detailed picture of England under Queen Anne .
Like his volume on Wycliffe , the work was accompanied by the publication of a selected group of documents , in this case illustrative of the history of Queen Anne's reign down to 1707 .
Trevelyan was at least in part attracted to the period by an almost unconscious desire to take up the story where Macaulay's History Of England had broken off .
In addition , he believed in the `` dramatic unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14 , lying between the Stuart and Hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own '' .
In four opening chapters reminiscent of Macaulay's famous third chapter , Trevelyan surveys the state of England at the opening of the eighteenth century .
Once the scene is set , Trevelyan skilfully builds up the tense story until it reaches its climax in the dramatic victory of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy at Blenheim .
The account of the battle is , next to his descriptions of Garibaldi's campaigns , Trevelyan's outstanding military narrative .
If only for this modest masterpiece of military history , Blenheim is likely to be read and reread long after newer interpretations have perhaps altered our picture of the Marlborough wars .
Ramillies And The Union With Scotland has fewer high spots than Blenheim and much less of its dramatic unity .
Yet in several chapters on Scotland in the eighteenth century , Trevelyan copes persuasively with the tangled confusion of Scottish politics against a vivid background of Scottish religion , customs , and traditions .
After making a short statement about human rights , and the freedom to travel , I told them I would be going to the Kehl bridge the next morning in order to cross the Rhine into Germany .
`` Well , I might not get that far '' , I told them , `` as actually I have no papers to enter Germany and , as a matter of fact , no permit to return to France once I leave '' .
We would all meet at ten o'clock at the Kehl bridge , five miles from Strasbourg , and march triumphantly across into Germany .
There was only one hitch : the small town of Kehl , on the other side of the Rhine , was still under French jurisdiction .
In fact , all persons were permitted to cross the Rhine into Kehl , there being no sentry posted on the west side of the river .
That evening , as I learned later , the students , enjoying that spontaneous immodesty in action known only to university students , surged out onto the streets of Strasbourg , overturning empty streetcars , marking up store fronts , and shouting imprudently , `` Garry Davis to power '' ! !
As I got off the trolley at Kehl bridge the next morning , I was met by what looked like 5,000 students , some of whom were carrying sticks apparently for the coming `` battle '' with the police .
Alarmed by this display of weapons , I looked toward the bridge and there saw , stretched across the near side , a cordon of policemen , their bicycles forming a roadblock before which stood several French officers in uniform and a small waspish man in a brown derby .
`` Listen please '' , I called to the students in French .
The waspish man stopped me three paces from the bicycle barricade , and asked me in French if I had papers to leave France .
He examined it carefully , handed it back and said , `` Eh bien , you may leave France '' .
One of the uniformed officers stepped in my way , demanding to know whether I had permission to enter Germany .
`` No , I have no permission to enter Germany '' , I told him .
`` But I have no permission to re-enter France , and I have just left '' , I told him .
`` I must then be standing on the line between France and Germany '' .
But there is no line between France and Germany , that is , no actual line .
You have just given me permission to leave France , which I did .
And as you know , I have no permission to re-enter France once out .
Now I learn I cannot enter Germany .
`` Mais non '' , the Interior Ministry man coaxed , `` you may come back to Strasbourg , now , if you wish '' .
`` Ah , then please tell me where the frontier is because this gentleman here '' -- I indicated the French occupation officer -- `` informs me that Germany is just on the other side of him '' .
The Interior man looked uneasily at his French compatriot .
And `` Bravo , Garry , continue '' ! !
Seeing their hesitation , I said , `` Well , until I have permission to enter Germany , or a visa to re-enter France , I shall be obliged to remain here on the line between two countries '' , whereupon I moved to the side of the road , parked my backpack against the small guardhouse on the sidewalk , sat down , took out my typewriter , and began typing the above conversation .
The reporters were questioning the Interior man and the French officer , both of whom remained noncommittal as to what action , if any , would be taken in my regard .
`` But what will you do this evening , Mr. Davis '' ? ?
`` I don't know '' , I told him , `` except that I will be here '' .
A special guard was posted at my end of the bridge to make sure I didn't cross , the ludicrousness of the situation being revealed fully in that everyone else -- men , women , and children , dogs , cats , horses , cars , trucks , baby carriages -- could cross Kehl bridge into Kehl without surveillance .
The day passed eventfully enough , with a constant stream of visitors , some stopping only to say hello , others getting into serious conversations , such as one Andre Fuchs , a free-lance journalist from Strasbourg who wrote an article for the Nouvelle Alsatian in highly sympathetic terms .
One of the girl students , sitting by while I ate the thick soup , asked me if I had a sleeping bag .
When I informed her that I didn't , she said she would borrow her brother's and bring it to me later that evening .
`` You do not know me '' , she said in good English , `` but my mother was your governess in Philadelphia when you were a child '' .
Her name was Esther Peter .
The Peter family proved wonderful and helpful friends in the following days , Mrs. Peter , little Esther , and Raoul , who generously lent me his sleeping bag for my `` Watch on the Rhine '' .
Sighting a line from the bridge to a small field directly to the side , I pitched the tent that evening on the stateless `` line '' , digging a small trench around it as best I could with a toy spade donated by a neighborhood child .
I had advised friends to write me to `` No Man's Land , Pont Kehl , Between Strasbourg and Kehl , France-Germany '' .
On Christmas Eve , students brought out two small Christmas trees which I placed on either side of the tent .
As the field on which my tent was pitched was a favorite natural playground for the kids of the neighborhood , I had made many friends among them , taking part in their after-school games and trying desperately to translate Grimm's Fairy Tales into an understandable French as we gathered around the fire in front of the tent .
In the mail were invitations to speak at the universities of Cologne , Heidelberg , and Baden-Baden .
When Dr. Adenauer was approached by a world citizen delegation to find out his disposition of my case , he gave them his personal approval of my entry , saying that all men advocating peace should be welcomed into Germany .
As it began raining at around eight o'clock on December 26th , I retired into my tent early , somewhat tired and discouraged , my body reacting sluggishly because of the continued exposure .
`` Oh , Mr. Davis , are you there '' ? ?
`` We're from the Council of Europe , British delegation .
I've had a trying day and I just can't make it out again '' , I told them .
Later I learned that Sir Hugh Dalton had expressed a desire to see me , hence their trip to `` No Man's Land '' .
On the evening of December 27th , Esther noticed my pallid look and rasping voice .
I wouldn't hear of it because it meant giving up the `` line '' , though I realized I was in poor shape physically .
`` You see , once I relinquish the position I've already established here , I couldn't regain it without sacrificing the logic of it '' .
At that moment , up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a world citizen from Basel , Switzerland .
Without preliminaries , Esther asked him , `` If you are a world citizen , will you take Garry Davis' place in his tent while he goes to the hospital '' ? ?
`` You have just enlisted for the ' Rhine Campaign ' '' .
Such were the incongruities of the situation that the very police assigned to check up on me were drafted into driving me to the Strasbourg Hospital while World Citizen Jean Babel waved adieu from the `` Line '' ! !
The Fourteenth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers lost one-third of its numbers within a few minutes , among them being several men whose time of service had expired but who had volunteered to advance with their regiment .
The Thirty-eighth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers , one of the regiments in Thomas' First Division during Buell's command , suffered its greatest loss of the war in this action .
A popular belief grew up after the war that the only time during the Civil War that Thomas ever put his horse to a gallop was when he went to hurry up Stanley for this assault .
It is not in the record , but he must have galloped his horse at Peach Tree Creek when he brought up Ward's guns to save Newton's crumbling line .
While the final combat of the campaign was being worked out at Jonesborough , Thomas , on Sherman's instructions , ordered Slocum , now commanding the Twentieth Corps , to make an effort to occupy Atlanta if he could do so without exposing his bridgehead to a counterattack .
On the morning of September 2 the Fourth Corps and the Armies of the Tennessee and the Ohio followed the line of Hardee's retreat .
About noon they came up with the enemy two miles from Lovejoy's Station and deployed .
The Fourth Corps assaulted and carried a small portion of the enemy works but could not hold possession of the gain for want of cooperation from the balance of the line .
That night a note written in Slocum's hand and dated from inside the captured city came to Sherman stating that the Twentieth Corps was in possession of Atlanta .
Before making the news public Sherman sent an officer with the note to Thomas .
The next day Sherman issued his orders ending the campaign and pulled his armies back to Atlanta .
For some time , despondency in some Northern quarters had been displayed in two ways -- an eagerness for peace and a dissatisfaction with Lincoln .
In the midst of this gloom , at 10:05 P.M. on September 2 , Slocum's telegram to Stanton , `` General Sherman has taken Atlanta '' , shattered the talk of a negotiated peace and boosted Lincoln into the White House .
Sherman had accomplished this much of his job and then inexplicably nullified it by his thirty-mile retreat from Lovejoy's to Atlanta .
The casualties in the Army of the Cumberland were 22,807 , while for all three armies they were 37,081 .
To the Rebels it seemed as if Sherman carried tunnels and bridges in his pockets .
Already debilitated by the Chattanooga starvation , the quality of Sherman's horseflesh ran downhill as the campaign progressed .
Sherman insisted that cavalry could not successfully break up hostile railways , yet Garrard's Covington raid and Rousseau's Opelika raid cut two-thirds of the rail lines he had to break and Sherman lived in mortal fear of what Forrest might do to his communications .
When McPherson pushed blindly through Snake Creek Gap in a potentially decisive movement , the only cavalry in his van was the Ninth Illinois Mounted Infantry , totally inadequate for its role .
A proper cavalry command in his front would have developed the fact that he had run into one division of Polk's Army of the Mississippi moving up from the direction of Mobile to join Johnston at Dalton .
From the night of August 30 to the morning of September 2 there was no Union cavalry east of the Macon railway to disclose to Sherman that he was missing the greatest opportunity of his career .
Lieutenant Colonel James P. Brownlow , who commanded the First Brigade of Thomas' First Cavalry Division , was ordered across one of these fords .
In one of the very few letters in which he ever complained of Meynell , Thompson told Patmore of his distress at having had to leave London before this new friendship had developed further : ``
That was a very absurd and annoying situation in which I was placed by W. M.'s curious methods of handling me .
He never let me know that my visit was about to terminate until the actual morning I was to leave for Lymington .
The result was that I found myself in the ridiculous position of having made a formal engagement by letter for the next week , only two days before my departure from London .
When Thompson and her daughter began a correspondence which included fervent verses from Pantasaph , Mrs. King felt a proper Victorian alarm .
Some , she knew , looked upon Thompson almost as a saint , but others read in `` The Hound Of Heaven '' what they took to be the confessions of a great sinner , who , like Oscar Wilde , had -- as one pious writer later put it -- thrown himself `` on the swelling wave of every passion '' .
Consequently , on October 31 , 1896 , Mrs. King wrote to Thompson , quite against her daughter's wishes , asking him not to `` recommence a correspondence which I believe has been dropped for some weeks '' .
This prospect did not please Mrs. King any more than did the possibility that her daughter might marry a Bohemian , but she used it to suggest to Thompson that , `` It is not in her nature to love you '' .
For his part , Thompson had explained in a previous letter that there would be nothing but an honorable friendship between Katie and himself .
At no time does he seem to have proposed marriage , and Mrs. King was evidently torn between a concern for her daughter's emotions and the desire to believe that the friendship might be continued without harm to her reputation .
In any case , she told Thompson that she saw no reason why he might not see Katie again , `` now that this frank explanation has been made & no one can misunderstand '' .
After Thompson came to London to live , he received a letter from Katie , which was dated February 8 , 1897 .
Katherine Douglas King '' The invitation was accepted and other letters followed , in which she spoke of her concern for his health and her delight in seeing him so much at home among the crippled children she served .
It is difficult to say what Thompson expected would come of their relationship , which had begun so soon after his emotions had been stirred by Maggie Brien , but when Katie wrote on April 11 , 1900 , to tell him that she was to be married to the Rev. Godfrey Burr , the vicar of Rushall in Staffordshire , the news evidently helped to deepen his discouragement over the failure of his hopes for a new volume of verse .
In a letter to Meynell , which was written in June , less than a month before Katie's wedding , he was highly melodramatic in his despair and once again announced his intention of returning to the life of the streets : ``
Perhaps Mrs. Meynell would do me the undeserved kindness to keep my own copy of the first edition of my first book , with all its mementos of her and the dear ones .
Last , not least , there are some poems which K. King sent me ( addressed to herself ) when I was preparing a fresh volume , asking me to include them .
The terrible blow of the New Year put an end to that project .
Meynell once again paid his debts and it was Katie , rather than Thompson , whose life was soon ended , for she died in childbirth in April , 1901 , in the first year of her marriage .
The `` orphaned poems '' mentioned in the letter to Meynell comprised a group of five sonnets , which were published in the 1913 edition of Thompson's works under the heading `` Ad Amicam '' , plus certain other completed pieces and rough drafts gathered together in one of the familiar exercise books .
The publication of Father Connolly's The Man Has Wings has made more of the group available in print so that a general picture of what it contained can now be had without difficulty .
When they were first written , there was evidently no thought of their being published , and those which refer to the writer's love for Mrs. Meynell particularly have the ring of truth .
In `` My Song's Young Virgin Date '' , for example , Thompson wrote : `` Yea , she that had my song's young virgin date Not now , alas , that noble singular she , I nobler hold , though marred from her once state , Than others in their best integrity .
My own stern hand has rent the ancient bond , And thereof shall the ending not have end : But not for me , that loved her , to be fond Lightly to please me with a newer friend Then hold it more than bravest-feathered song , That I affirm to thee , with heart of pride , I knew not what did to a friend belong Till I stood up , true friend , by thy true side ; ;
Taking into account Thompson's capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known unhappy loves , there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for Katie King .
From the outset , she must have realized that marriage with him was out of the question , and although she was displeased by the `` unwarrantable '' interference , it seems probable that she did agree with her mother's suggestion that the poet was `` perhaps '' a man `` most fitted to live & die solitary , & in the love only of the Highest Lover '' .
The poems which were addressed to her , while they are far more restrained than those of `` Love In Dian's Lap '' , show no great technical advance over those of the `` Narrow Vessel '' group and are , if anything , somewhat more labored .
Whether or not Danchin is correct in suggesting that Thompson's resumption of the opium habit also dates from this period is , of course , a matter of conjecture .
If , as Reid says , `` nearly all his poetry was produced when he was not taking opium '' , there may be some reason to doubt that he was under its influence in the period from 1896 to 1900 when he was writing the poems to Katie King and making plans for another book of verse .
Reviewing Davidson's The Testament Of An Empire Builder , for example , Thompson found that there was `` too much metrical dialectic '' .
Yet Davidson impressed him as a poet capable of `` sustained power , passion , or beauty '' , and he cited specific passages to illustrate not only these qualities but Davidson's command of imagery as well .
Similarly , he wrote that Laurence Housman had a `` too deliberate manner '' as well as a lack of `` inevitable felicity in diction '' .
But he admired Housman's `` subtle intellectuality '' and delighted in the inversion by which Divine Love becomes the most `` fatal '' allurement in `` Love The Tempter '' .
As he had done on his first Imperial sortie a year and a half before , Lewis trekked southeast through Red Russia to Kamieniec .
Thence he pushed farther south than he had ever been before into Podolia and Nogay Tartary or the Yedisan .
There , along the east bank of the Southern Bug , opposite the hamlet of Zhitzhakli a few miles north of the Black Sea , he arrived at General Headquarters of the Russian Army .
By June 19 , 1788 , he had presented himself to its Commander in Chief , the Governor of the Southern Provinces , the Director of the War College -- The Prince .
Catherine's first war against the Grand Turk had ended in 1774 with a peace treaty quite favorable to her .
By 1783 her legions had managed to annex the Crimea amid scenes of wanton cruelty and now , in this second combat with the Crescent , were aiming at suzerainty over all of the Black Sea's northern shoreline .
To consolidate what her Navy had won , the Czarina was fortunate that , for the first time in Russian history , her land forces enjoyed absolute unity of command under her favorite Giaour .
along the Danube and among the Carpathians , in alliance with the Emperor Joseph's armies ; ;
and in the misty marshlands and shallow coastal waters of Nogay Tartary and Taurida , including the Crimean peninsula .
Here the war would flame to its focus , and here Lewis Littlepage had come .
Potemkin's Army of Ekaterinoslav , totaling , it was claimed , 40,000 regular troops and 6,000 irregulars of the Cossack Corps , had invested Islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the Black Sea , the fortress town of Oczakov , and was preparing to test the Turk by land and sea .
During a sojourn of slightly more than three months Chamberlain Littlepage could see action on both elements .
As his second in command The Prince had Marshal Repnin , one-time Ambassador to Poland .
The Marshal came to know Littlepage quite well .
At General Headquarters the newcomer in turn got to know others .
There was the Neapolitan , Ribas , a capable conniver whose father had been a blacksmith but who had fawned his way up the ladder of Catherine's and Potemkin's favor till he was now a brigadier ( and would one day be the daggerman designated to do in Czar Paul 1 , , after traveling all the way to Naples to procure just the right stiletto ) .
Representing the Emperor were the Prince De Ligne , still as impetuous as a youth of twenty ; ;
and General the Count Pallavicini , founder of the Austrian branch of that celebrated Italian house , a courtier Littlepage could have met at Madrid in December , 1780 .
From Milan came the young Chevalier De Litta , an officer in the service of Malta .
Out of Saxony rode the Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg , one of the Czarina's cousins and a lieutenant general in her armies , a frank , sensitive , popular soldier whose kindnesses Littlepage would `` always recall with the sincerest gratitude '' .
Though Catherine was vexed at the number of French officers streaming to the Turkish standard , there were several under her own , such as the Prince De Nassau ; ;
the energetic Parisian , Roger De Damas , three year's Littlepage's junior , to whom Nassau had taken a liking ; ;
and the artillerist , Colonel Prevost , whom the Count De Segur had persuaded to lend his technical skills to Nassau .
England contributed a young subaltern named Newton and the naval architect Samuel Bentham , brother to the economist , who for his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the Russian fleet .
From America were the Messrs. Littlepage and Jones .
Lewis had expected to report at once to Jones's and Nassau's naval command post .
On arrival at headquarters he had , however -- in King Stanislas' words to Glayre -- `` found such favor with Pe Potemkin that he made him his aide-de-camp and up to now does not want him to go join Paul Jones .
The Prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous , but these qualities were sapped by an Oriental lethargy and a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions .
At headquarters -- sufficiently far from the firing line to make you forget occasionally that you were in a war -- Lewis found that the Commander in Chief's only desk was his knees ( and his only comb , his fingers ) .
An entire theater had been set up for his diversion , with a 200-man Italian orchestra under the well-known Sarti .
Lewis could let his eye caress The Prince's divan , covered with a rose-pink and silver Turkish cloth , or admire the lovely tapis , interwoven with gold , that spread across the floor .
For if Serenissimus made the sign of the Cross with his right hand , and meant it , with his left he beckoned lewdly to any lady who happened to catch his eye .
Usually Lewis would find at headquarters one or more of The Prince's various nieces .
Right now he found Sophie De Witt , that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec four years ago .
The Prince took her with him on every tour around the area , and it was rumored he was utilizing her knowledge of Constantinople as part of his espionage network .
When a lady chanced to soil a pair of evening slippers , Brigadier Bauer was dispatched to Paris for replacements .
But if The Prince fancied women and was fascinated by foreigners , he could be haughtiness personified to his subordinates .
His coat trimmed in sable , diamond stars of the Orders of Saints Andrew or George agleam , he was often prone to sit sulkily , eye downcast , in a Scheherazade trance .
As Littlepage noted : `` A complete picture of Prince Potemkin may be had in his 1788 operations .
To help him do so The Prince had conferred control of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost every respect save one : both were eccentrics of the purest ray serene .
Alexander Vasilievitch Suvorov , now in his fifty-ninth year ( ten years Potemkin's senior ) , was a thin , worn-faced person of less than medium height who looked like a professor of botany .
When Littlepage was introduced , if the General behaved as usual , the newcomer faced a staccato salvo of queries : origin ? ?
Yet General Suvorov -- who had never forgotten hearing his adored Czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities -- was mad only north , northwest .
He dabbled in verse , could get along well among most of the European languages , and was fluent in French and German .
Potemkin -- as King Stanislas knew , and presently informed Littlepage -- looked on the Cossacks as geopolitical tools .
To Serenissimus such tribes as the Cossacks of the Don or those ex-bandits the Zaporogian Cossacks ( in whose islands along the lower Dnieper the Polish novelist Sienkiewicz would one day place With Fire And Sword ) were just elements for enforced resettlement in , say , Bessarabia , where , as `` the faithful of the Black Sea borders '' , he could use their presence as bargaining points in the Czarina's territorial claims against Turkey .
It was probably at this period that Littlepage got his first good look at the ordinary Russian soldier .
These illiterate boors conscripted from villages all across the Czarina's empire had , Suvorov may have told Lewis , just two things a commander could count on : physical fitness and personal courage .
They emerged as interchangeable cogs in a faulty but formidable machine : shaved nearly naked , hair queued , greatcoated , jackbooted , and best of all -- in the opinion of the British professional , Major Semple-Lisle -- `` their minds are not estranged from the paths of obedience by those smatterings of knowledge which only serve to lead to insubordination and mutiny '' .
Mando , pleading her cause , must have said that Dr. Brown was the most distinguished physician in the United States of America , for our man poured out his symptoms and drew a madly waving line indicating the irregularity of his pulse .
At this moment Mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem was solved and all Norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers .
`` You know '' , Norton said to me later , `` I am thinking of setting up the Klinico Brownapopolus .
Deppy is Despina Messinesi , a long-time member of the Vogue staff who , although born in Boston , was born there of Greek parents .
In the late afternoon Mando came back to fetch us , and we drove to the Acropolis .
In 1687 the Turks , who had been in control of the city since the fifteenth century , with a truly shattering lack of prudence used the Parthenon as a powder magazine .
The architectural feature , the caryatides upholding the portico , famous around the world as the Porch of the Maidens , was referred to airily by Mando as the Girls' Place .
Another beautiful building is the Propylaea , the entrance gate of the Acropolis .
My other nugget of art and architectural knowledge -- besides remembering that it was Ghiberti who designed the doors of the baptistery in Florence -- is the three styles of Greek columns .
For some happy reason Doric , Ionic , and Corinthian have always stuck in my mind .
It remained , however , for Mando to teach me that Doric symbolized strength , Ionic wisdom , and Corinthian beauty , the three pillars of the ancient world .
The columns of the Parthenon are fluted Doric .
The evening of our first day we drove with Christopher and Judy Sakellariadis , who were friends and patients of Norton , to dine at a restaurant on the shores of the Aegean .
On the way out Mr. Sakellariadis detoured up a special hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the Acropolis lighted by night .
The great spectacle was a source of rancor , and Son et Lumiere , which the French were trying to promote with the Athenians , was the reason .
The Acropolis had been scheduled for the treatment too , but apparently it was to take place at the time of the full moon when the Athenians themselves , out of respect for the natural beauty of the occasion , were wont to forgo their own usual nocturnal illumination .
Athenian society was split into two factions , the Philistines and the Artists .
The Artists contended that the Philistines , gross of soul , were all for having Son et Lumiere , since the French were footing the bill and the attraction , wherever it had been done , had proven popular .
The restaurant to which the Sakellariadises took us on this night of controversy was the Asteria , on Asteria beach .
The other is that the charge for cabanas and parasols , though modest from an American point of view , still is a little high for many Athenians .
Greek boys and girls also go for rock-and-roll , and the stations most tuned to are those carrying United States overseas programs .
A good deal of English was spoken on the beach , most educated Greeks learn it in childhood , and there were also American wives and children of our overseas servicemen .
For a delightful drive out of Athens I should recommend Sounion , at the end of the Attic Peninsula .
At Sounion there is a group of beautiful columns , the ruins of a temple to Poseidon , of particular interest at that time , as active reconstruction was in progress .
There is a mediocre restaurant at Sounion and I fed a thin little Grecian cat and gave it two saucers of water -- there was no milk -- which it lapped up as though it were nectar .
Norton and I dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in Piraeus right on the water's edge .
Across the road is the kitchen , and waiters bearing great trays of dishes dodge traffic as nimbly as their French colleagues at the restaurant in the Place Du Tertre in Paris .
Greece was one of the highlights of our trip , but beginning in Greece and continuing around the world throughout Southeast Asia the treatment of animals was horrifying , ranging from callous indifference to active cruelty .
We met some charming Athenians , and among them our chauffeur Panyotis ranked high .
The charge was so farfetched that Woodruff paid little attention to it , and answered Pike in a rather bored way , wearily declaring that a `` new hand '' was pumping the bellows of the Crittenden organ , and concluding : `` In a controversy with an adversary so utterly destitute of moral principles , even a triumph would entitle the victor to no laurels .
Despite Woodruff's continuing refusal to debate with Pike through the columns of his newspaper , Pike did not let up his attack for a moment .
Over the months he became a political gadfly with an incessant barrage of satirical poems ridiculing Woodruff , the `` Casca '' letters belittling Woodruff , and long analytical articles vilifying Woodruff .
So persistent were these attacks that in March of the following year , Woodruff was finally moved to action , and Pike was to learn his first lesson in frontier politics , the subtle art of diversion .
To attack Pike directly would gain Woodruff little , for as a penniless newcomer Pike had nothing to lose .
By this time Woodruff had accurately measured Pike as a man of great personal pride , a man who would fly into a towering rage if his integrity were questioned , and who would be anxious to avenge himself .
The charges would be made in The Gazette by an anonymous correspondent , and Pike would be so busy trying to track down the illusive character assassin that he would forget about harassing Woodruff .
Pike was stunned by the first blast against his character , which was published in the March 4th issue of The Gazette under the name `` Vale '' .
He said Pike had stolen mules from Harris during the Santa Fe expedition ; ;
he accused Pike of continuing his sticky-fingered career in Arkansas with the theft of some otter skins in Van Buren .
Outraged , he used the Advocate of March 7th for a denial , sending immediately to Santa Fe and Van Buren for documents to vindicate himself , and demanding that Woodruff reveal the name of this perfidious slanderer who disguised himself under a pastoral pseudonym .
Woodruff said nothing , and Pike , frustrated , stormed throughout Little Rock in an unsuccessful search for `` Vale '' , asking his friends to keep their ears open .
Finally he learned through the grapevine that the culprit might be one James W. Robinson in Pope County .
Without further inquiry , Pike jumped to the conclusion that Robinson was guilty , and , following the honorable route that would eventually lead to the dueling ground , sent a message to Robinson through his friends , demanding that he either confirm or deny his complicity .
To Pike , silence was tantamount to an admission of guilt , and he determined to get Robinson onto the dueling ground at all costs .
On April 11th he wrote an open letter in The Advocate , making it known `` to the world that Jas. W. Robinson is by his own admission a base liar and a slanderer '' .
If Robinson was a liar and a slanderer , he was also a very canny gentleman , for nothing that Pike could do would pry so much as a single word out of him .
Preoccupied with his own defense and his attempts to get Robinson to fight , Pike lessened his attacks on Woodruff , and finally stopped them altogether .
And Pike never did find out if Robinson was really responsible for the `` Vale '' letter .
It took Pike a long time to realize what Woodruff had done , and it had a profound effect on him .
In the next few months of comparative silence , Pike waited patiently until conditions were perfect for a new attack , and then , displaying a remarkable grasp of the subtleties of political infighting , gained from his first bout with Woodruff , he used these changed conditions to excellent advantage .
Shortly after the `` Vale '' incident , a rift began to develop between William Woodruff and Governor Pope .
One-armed , gruff , frugally honest , Governor Pope had been the ideal man to assume office in Arkansas after the disgraceful antics of political bosses like Crittenden , and he ruled the state with an iron fist , tolerating no nonsense .
This warm relationship came to an abrupt end in June of 1834 when the National Congress appropriated $3,000 for compiling and printing the laws of Arkansas Territory , and , taking note of the recent wave of corruption in the legislature , left it to the governor to award the contract .
But because the governor was determined that friendship should not influence him one way or the other , he looked for a printer with a knowledge of the law ( which Woodruff did not have ) , and awarded the contract to a lawyer named John Steele who had started a newspaper in Helena the year before .
Considering the governor's act a personal rebuff , he aired his feelings in The Gazette on August 26 , 1834 : :
It is but justice to Mr. Steele for us to add that , in the above remarks , nothing is intended to his disparagement , either as a lawyer or as a printer .
From his first bout with the canny Woodruff , Pike had learned that it was better not to attack him directly , so , harping on the theme that the cost of printing was too high , he condemned the governor for permitting such a state of affairs to exist .
To document his charge , Pike set up two parallel columns in The Advocate showing the price charged by The Gazette and the considerably lower price for which the work could be done elsewhere .
The governor was not used to having his integrity questioned , and he promptly passed the charges on to Woodruff , demanding that Woodruff answer them .
If Woodruff could not furnish a strong explanation , the governor insisted that he lower his prices in accord with the scale printed in The Advocate .
Very angry at Woodruff , the governor used his personal influence to have the printing contract withdrawn from The Gazette and awarded to the lowest bidder , which , by a strange coincidence , happened to be Pike's Advocate .
And , for the moment at least , the governor now found himself allied with the head of the Crittenden faction he had formerly opposed , and Pike was credited with a clear triumph over Woodruff .
But in the confused atmosphere of frontier politics , alliances were as quickly broken as they were formed , and as Pike came to favor with the governor of the Territory , the governor fell out of favor with the President of the United States .
On January 28 , 1835 , Andrew Jackson removed Pope from office and elevated Territorial Secretary William S. Fulton to the position .
As a stanch party man and a rabid Democrat , he had little tolerance for Whigs like Pike , and Pike lost any immediate personal advantage his victory over Woodruff might have gained him .
as Pike proved himself adept in the political arena , he also became a social lion in the village of Little Rock , where he served as a symbol of the culture that the ladies of the town were striving so eagerly to cultivate .
After all , Pike was an established poet and his work had been published in the respectable periodicals of that center of American culture , Boston .
His accomplishments , and the fact that he was resident , did much to offset the unkind words travelers used to describe Little Rock after a visit there .
The internationally known sportsman and traveler Friedrich Gerstacker was typical of its detractors in the mid-thirties .
`` Little Rock is , without any flattery , one of the dullest towns in the United States and I would not have remained two hours in the place , if I had not met with some good friends who made me forget its dreariness '' .
By 1834 the art of oratory had reached a very high level in the United States as a literary form .
Very soon after his arrival in Little Rock , Pike had joined one of the most influential organizations in town , the Little Rock Debating Society , and it was with this group that he made his debut as an orator , being invited to deliver the annual Fourth of July address the club sponsored every year .
Samuel Gorton , founder of Warwick , was styled by the historian Samuel Greene Arnold `` one of the most remarkable men who ever lived '' .
A biographer called him `` the premature John the Baptist of New England Transcendentalism '' .
The historian Charles Francis Adams called him `` a crude and half-crazy thinker '' .
Edward Rawson , secretary of the colony of Massachusetts Bay , described him as `` a man whose spirit was stark drunk with blasphemies and insolence , a corrupter of the truth , a disturber of the peace wherever he comes '' .
He was thrown out , more or less , from Boston , Plymouth , Pocasset , Newport , and Providence .
On the other hand , Dr. Ezra Styles recorded the following testimony of John Angell , the last disciple of Gorton : ``
He was universally beloved by his neighbours , and the Indians , who esteemed him , not only as a friend , but one high in communion with God in Heaven '' .
There is plenty more to recommend Gorton , the facts of whose life are given in The Life And Times Of Samuel Gorton , by Adelos Gorton .
He fought like a fiend for the helpless and oppressed , worked for the abolition of slavery , helped the Quakers and Indians , and worked against the prosecution of witches .
He defied the Boston hierarchy , and after they sent a small army to get him he befuddled the court , including John Cotton , with one of the most complicated religious discourses ever heard .
Samuel Gorton was born at Gorton , England , near the present city of Manchester , about 1592 .
Although he did not attend any celebrated schools or universities , he was a master of Greek and Hebrew and could read the Bible in the original .
Gorton left England , he said , `` to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards God , and for no other end '' .
With his wife and three or more children he arrived in Boston in March , 1637 , and soon found it was no place for anyone looking for liberty of conscience .
Roger Williams had recently been thrown out , and Anne Hutchinson and her Antinomians were slugging it out with the powers-that-be .
She was Ellen Aldridge , a widow of good repute who was employed by Gorton's wife and lived with the family .
It had been whispered privately that she had smiled in the congregation , and the Governor Prence sent to knoe her business , and command , after punishment as the bench see fit , her departure and also anyone who brought her to the place from which she came ' '' .
He left in a storm for Pocasset , December 4 , 1638 .
The unconquerable Mrs. Hutchinson was residing at Pocasset , after having been excommunicated by the Boston church and thrown out of the colony .
William Coddington , who was running the colony , felt constrained to move seven miles south where , with others -- as mentioned above -- he founded Newport .
When , in March , 1640 , the two towns were united under Coddington , Gorton claimed the union was irregular and illegally constituted and that it had never been sanctioned by the majority of freeholders .
Gorton reverted to his Plymouth tactics , refused to let her go , and appeared himself before the Portsmouth grand jury .
During the trial he told off the jury , called them `` Just Asses '' and called a freeman `` a saucy boy and Jack-an-Apes '' .
Since Rhode Island at that time did not have such sanction , his opinion was not popular .
Roger Williams wrote his friend Winthrop as follows : ``
Master Gorton , having foully abused high and low at Aquidneck is now bewitching and bemaddening poor Providence , both with his unclean and foul censures of all the ministers of this country ( for which myself have in Christ's name withstood him ) , and also denying all visible and external ordinances in depth of Familism : almost all suck in his poison , as at first they did at Aquidneck .
yet the tide is too strong against us , and I fear ( if the framer of hearts help not ) it will force me to little Patience , a little isle next to your Prudence '' .
Providence finally managed to get Gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony .
This town should not be confused with Pawtucket , just north of Providence , or Pawcatuck , Connecticut , on the Pawcatuck River , opposite Westerly , Rhode Island .
Upon intelligence that the formidable agitator was to favor them with his presence , the benighted inhabitants of Pawtuxet , alas , gave their allegiance to Massachusetts and asked that colony to expel the newcomers .
Gorton and company , however , promptly bought land from Miantonomi a few miles south of Pawtuxet , extending from the present Gaspee Point south to Warwick Neck and twenty miles inland .
It was not within the jurisdiction of anybody or anything , including Providence and Massachusetts .
Pomham and Soconoco , a couple of minor sachems ( of something less than exalted character ) under Miantonomi , declared that they had never assented to the sale of land to Gorton and had never received anything for it .
Following the glorious lead of the heroes of Pawtuxet , they also submitted themselves to the protection of Massachusetts .
One historical authority presents laborious and circuitous testimony tending to arouse suspicion that Massachusetts was behind the clouds settling down on the embattled Gorton .
However , the General Court at Boston ordered the purchasers of Shawomet to appear before them to answer the sachems' claim .
The Commissioners at Boston wrote the victims to see their misdeeds and repent or they should `` look upon them as men prepared for slaughter '' .
At Shawomet , women and children fled in terror across the Bay .
You may do well to take notice , that besides the title to land between the English and the Indians there , there are twelve of the English that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable blasphemies , who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration '' .
The attack started on October 2 , 1643 , and the Gortonists held out for a day and a night .
When the captives arrived in Boston , `` the chaplain ( of their captors ) went to prayers in the open streets , that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner , and in the name of the Lord '' .
The Boston elders were great at befuddling the opposition with torrents of ecclesiastical obscurities , but Gorton was better .
Reverend Cotton preached to them about Demetrius and the shrines of Ephesus .
Four ecclesiastical questions were presented by the General Court to Gorton : `` 1 .
Whether the Fathers , who died before Christ was born of the Virgin Mary , were justified and saved only by the blood which he shed , and the death which he suffered after his incarnation ? ?
Whether the only price of our redemption were not the death of Christ on the cross , with the rest of his sufferings and obediences , in the time of his life here , after he was born of the Virgin Mary ? ?
What he means when he saith , wee worship the starre of our God Remphan , Chion , Moloch '' ? ?
The convicts were put in chains , paraded before the congregation at the Reverend Cotton's lecture as an example , and sent to prisons in various towns , where they languished all winter , chains included .
When Fred wheeled him back into his room , the big one looking out on the back porch , and put him to bed , Papa told him he was very tired but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown .
That night after supper I went back over to 48 Spruce Street -- Ralph and I at that time were living at 168 Chestnut -- and Ralph went with me .
`` Baby , I saw a lot of old friends I hadn't seen in a long time '' , he told me , his eyes bright .
We got Dr. Glenn to him as quickly as we could , and we wired Tom of Papa's desperate condition .
`` Dr. Glenn , I've got a lot of blood '' , Fred spoke up , `` plenty of it .
The doctor agreed , but explained that it would be necessary first to check Fred's blood to ascertain whether or not it was of the same type as Papa's .
`` Fred , your blood matches your father's , all right '' , Dr. Glenn said .
`` But why in the name of God can't I give my father blood '' ? ?
`` Why can't I , Doctor '' ? ?
`` W. O. Wolfe , prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section , died shortly after midnight Tuesday at his home 48 Spruce Street '' , the Asheville Times of Wednesday , June 21 , announced .
Beloved Dr. R. F. Campbell , our First Presbyterian Church pastor , was in charge .
The burial was out in Riverside Cemetery .
A few years before his death Papa had agreed with Mama to make a joint will with her in which it would be provided that in the event of the death of either of them an accounting would be made to their children whereby each child would receive a bequest of $5000 cash .
At his death Fred and Ralph , my husband , were named executors of the estate under the terms of the will .
Fred and Ralph qualified as executors and paid off what debts were currently due , and they were all current , since Papa was never one to allow bills to go unpaid .
After they had paid all his debts and the funeral costs , Ralph and Fred had some fourteen thousand dollars , as I remember , with which to pay the bequests .
So what Fred and Ralph did was to attempt to prorate the money fairly by taking into account what each of the five had received , if anything , from the estate before Papa's death .
Consequently , Fred and Tom , the two who had been provided college educations , signed statements to the effect that each had received his bequest in full , and Effie and I were each allotted $5000 .
Tom had received four years of education at the University of North Carolina and two at Harvard , and Fred had been in and out of Georgia Tech and Carneigie Tech and part of the time had been a self-help student .
So , because he had received less than Tom , it was felt proper that Fred should receive the few hundred dollars that remained .
Had he been able to escape this long siege of invalidism , I'm convinced , Papa would have left a sizable estate .
For years Papa and Mama had been large taxpayers .
`` Merciful God , Julia '' ! !
In the spring of his second year at Harvard , Tom had been offered a job at Northwestern University as an instructor in the English Department .
But he had delayed accepting this job , and as he was leaving to come home to Papa in response to our telegram , he dropped a postcard to Miss McCrady , head of the Harvard Appointment Office , asking her please to write Northwestern authorities and explain the circumstances .
Actually Tom had been postponing giving them an answer , I'm confident , because he did not want to go out there to teach .
But Papa's death had further complicated the financing of Tom's hoped-for third year , and for the weeks following it Tom did not know whether his return to Harvard could be arranged .
But things were worked out in the family and late in August he wrote Miss McCrady an explanatory letter in which he told her that matters at home had been in an unsettled condition after Papa's death and he had not known whether he would stay at home with Mama , accept the Northwestern job , or return to Harvard .
But he was happy to tell her that his finances were now in such condition that he could go back to Harvard for a third year with Professor Baker .
I believe there are seventeen short plays by Tom now housed in the Houghton Library at Harvard ; ;
That fall he submitted to Professor Baker the first acts and outlines of the following acts of several plays , six of them , according to some of his associates , and he also worked on a play that he first called Niggertown , the material for which he had collected during the summer at home .
Later this play would be called Welcome To Our City .
In the spring , it must have been , he began working on the play that he called The House , which later would be Mannerhouse .
That spring Welcome To Our City was selected for production by the 47 Workshop and it was staged in the middle of May .
In describing it to Professor Baker after it had been chosen for production , he defended his great array of characters by declaring that he had included that many not because `` I didn't know how to save paint '' , but because the play required them .
That summer Tom attended the summer session at Harvard , but he did not ask Mama to send him back in the fall .
Instead , he went down to New York and submitted Welcome To Our City to the Theatre Guild , which had asked him to let them have a look at it after Professor Baker had recommended it highly .
He hung around New York , waiting to hear whether they would accept it for production and in that time came down to Asheville and also paid a short visit to Chapel Hill , where with almost childish delight he visited old friends and favorite campus spots .
On returning to New York he had a job for several weeks ; ;
it was visiting University of North Carolina alumni in New York to ask them for contributions to the Graham Memorial Building fund .
The Graham Memorial would be the campus student union honoring the late and much beloved Edward Kidder Graham , who had been president when Tom entered the university .
Well , the Theatre Guild kept that play , and kept it , and finally in December they turned it down .
Tom told me about it , how one evening he went over to see the Theatre Guild man .
This man , Tom said , had the play shut up in his desk , I believe , and when Tom sat down , he pulled it out and apologetically told Tom that they wouldn't be able to use it .
It was not until we had returned to the city to live , while I was still at Brown and Sharpe's , that I felt the full impact of evangelical Christianity .
The spirit of this group was that we were -- and are -- living in a world doomed to eternal punishment , but that God through Jesus Christ has provided a way of escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation .
This group in Park Place Church was made up of the earnest few .
Besides Church and Sunday School I went to out-of-door meetings on the sidewalk at the church door .
I went to the Christian Endeavor Society and to the evening service of the church .
The basic difficulty , I suppose , was in my ultimate inability to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief .
I was familiar with Pilgrim's Progress , which I read as literature .
In the rhyming catechism this doctrine is worded thus : `` In Adam's fall We sin-ned all '' .
I did not feel it presumptuous to expect that the Creator would be at least as just as the most righteous of His creatures ; ;
I found myself becoming one of that group of people who , in Carlyle's words , `` are forever gazing into their own navels , anxiously asking ' Am I right , am I wrong ' '' ? ?
I bethought me of the Lord's Prayer , and these words came to mind : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
From that time to this my religious concern is that I might give effective help to the bringing in of God's kingdom on earth .
In my experience the assurance of forgiveness comes only when I have confessed to the wronged one and have made as full reparation as I can devise .
This was taken after I came to live in Springfield , and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend Raymond Beardslee , a young preacher who came to the Congregational Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York .
His father was a professor at Hartford Theological Seminary , and from him he acquired a conviction , which he passed along to me , that there is in the universe of persons a moral law , the law of love , which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law .
It is not the authority of God Himself which makes them true .
Because God is what He is , the laws of the universe , material and spiritual , are what they are .
In his book Civilization And Ethics Albert Schweitzer faces the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business life , for example .
In seeking for such meaning and purpose , Albert Schweitzer seized upon the concept of the `` sacredness of life '' .
So far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in Lambarene , Africa , or in Washington , D.C. .
Read , for instance , in Malcolm MacDonald's Borneo People of Segura and her wise father Tomonggong Koh , and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization .
Above all read in Jens Bjerre's The Last Cannibal Show the old man of the Wailbri tribe ( not cannibals ) in central Australia gave to the white man his choicest possession , while the tears streamed down his face .
As to our action , let us align ourselves with the purpose expressed by Jesus in the Lord's Prayer : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
As I have said , words from Tennyson remain ever in my memory : `` That mind and soul , according well , May make one music as before '' .
When the young biologist , Dr. Ballard , began to show interest in our daughter Elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
Then I asked , `` What does that teach you '' ? ?
As our radius of penetration , R , increases , the area of new knowledge increases by Af , and the total of human knowledge becomes measured in terms of Af .
One such is Abraham Meyer , the writer of a recent book , Speaking Of Man .
The subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland .
Altogether , the list will give us considerable variety in attitudes and some typical ones , for these critics range all the way from censors to those who consider art above ethics , all the way from Plato to Poe .
And most of the great periods are represented , because we will compare Plato and Aristotle from the golden age of Greece ; ;
Stephen Gosson and Sir Philip Sidney from renaissance England ; ;
Dr. Johnson and William Hazlitt of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in England ; ;
and James Russell Lowell and Edgar Allan Poe of nineteenth century American letters .
While Aristotle censors literature only for the young , Plato would banish all poets from his ideal state .
Even more important , in his Poetics , Aristotle differs somewhat from Plato when he moves in the direction of treating literature as a unique thing , separate and apart from its causes and its effects .
All through The Republic , Plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately to a good life for his citizens .
When he turns briefly to literary style , in the Third Book , he again looks to the effect on the audience .
When he discusses tyrants in the Eighth Book of The Republic , he pictures the poets as willing to praise the worst rulers .
But the most fundamental objection he has to poets appears in the Tenth Book , and it is derived from his doctrine of ideal forms .
The same sort of thinking plays so large a part in both Babbitt and More , that we must examine it in some detail .
We may further grant to those of her ( Poetry's ) defenders who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets , the permission to speak in prose on her behalf : let them show not only that she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life , and we will listen in a kindly spirit ; ;
In Aristotle's analysis of tragedy in the Poetics , we find an attempt to isolate the art , to consider only those things proper to it , to discover how it differs from other arts , and to deal with the effects peculiar to it .
Throughout the rest of the Poetics , Aristotle continues to discuss the characteristics of these six parts and their interrelationship , and he refers frequently to the standards suggested by his definition of tragedy .
The Chicago contingent of modern critics follow Aristotle so far in this direction that it is hard to see how they can compare one poem with another for the purpose of evaluation .
And there is one other point in the Poetics that invites moral evaluation : Aristotle's notion that the distinctive function of tragedy is to purge one's emotions by arousing pity and fear .
In his study Samuel Johnson , Joseph Wood Krutch takes this line when he says that what Aristotle really means by his theory of catharsis is that our evil passions may be so purged by the dramatic ritual that it is `` less likely that we shall indulge them through our own acts '' .
And we can add that Krutch's interpretation of purgation is also one answer to Plato's fear that poetry will encourage our passions .
Both sides claimed that Plato and Aristotle supported their cause .
Those who wanted to close the theaters , for example , pointed to Plato's Republic and those who wished to keep them open called on the Plato of the Ion to testify in their behalf .
The most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps Sir Philip Sidney's An Apologie For Poetrie , published in 1595 .
For this reason , then I want to describe , first , two examples of the puritanical attacks : Stephen Gosson's The School Of Abuse , 1579 , and his later Playes Confuted , published in 1582 .
Second , we will see how Sidney answered the charges , for while Sidney's essay was not specifically a reply to Gosson , his arguments do support the new theater .
According to William Ringler's study , Stephen Gosson , the theater business in London had become a thriving enterprise by 1577 , and , in the opinion of many , a thoroughly bad business .
Although this kind of wholesale objection came at first from some men who were not technically Puritans , still , once the Puritans gained power , they climaxed the affair by passing the infamous ordinance of 1642 which decreed that all `` public stage-plays shall cease and be forborne '' .
With that act of Parliament the opponents of the stage won the day , and for more than two decades after that England had no legitimate public drama .
In the early days of this controversy over the theater one of the interested parties , Stephen Gosson , published a little tract in which he objected mildly to the abuses of art , rather than the art itself .
But his opposition hardened and by 1579 , in The School Of Abuse , he was ready to banish all `` players '' .
For this purpose we now draw upon data from sociological and psychological studies of students in American colleges and universities , and particularly from the Cornell Values Studies .
In addition , the 1952 study collected comparable data from 4,585 students at ten other colleges and universities scattered across the country : Dartmouth , Harvard , Yale , Wesleyan , North Carolina , Fisk , Texas , University of California at Los Angeles , Wayne , and Michigan .
Yet they have accepted most of the extant `` welfare state '' provisions for health , security , and the regulation of economic affairs , and they overwhelmingly approve of the traditional `` liberalism '' of the Bill of Rights .
In other words , as students go through college , those who are most successful academically tend to become more committed to a `` Bill of Rights '' orientation .
For instance , college-educated people consistently show up in study after study as more often than others supporters of the Bill of Rights and other democratic rights and liberties .
From New Jersey , Morgan hastened to the headquarters of Washington at Whitemarsh , Pennsylvania , arriving there on November 18th .
On the morning of November 17th , Cornwallis and 2,000 men had left Philadelphia with the object of capturing Fort Mercer at Red Bank , New Jersey .
In order to prevent this , Washington hastened to dispatch several units to reinforce the fort , including a force under the Marquis De Lafayette containing some 160 of Morgan's riflemen , all who were fit for duty at this time , the rest having no shoes .
Although the fort was evacuated in the face of the force of Cornwallis , Morgan and his men did have a chance to take another swing at the redcoats .
A picket guard of about 350 , mostly Hessians , were attacked by the Americans under Lafayette , and driven back to their camp , some twenty to thirty of them falling before the riflemen's fire .
Nathanael Greene told Washington that `` Lafayette was charmed with the spirited behavior of the militia and riflemen '' .
A few days later it was learned that General Howe was planning an attack upon the American camp .
The British general moved his forces north from Philadelphia to Chestnut Hill , near the right wing of the patriot encampment .
Here the Pennsylvania militia skirmished with the British , but soon fled .
Morgan was ordered to attack the enemy , who had meantime moved to Edge Hill on the left of the Americans .
Now the riflemen and the Marylanders followed up their beginning and closed in on the British , giving them another telling round of fire .
But the Maryland militia had likewise fled , all too typical of this type of soldier during the Revolution , an experience which gave Morgan little confidence in militia in general , as he watched other instances of their breaking in hot engagements .
The British , although suffering considerable losses , noted the defection of the Marylanders , made a stand , then turned and attacked Morgan who became greatly outnumbered and had to retire .
The Americans lost forty-four men , among them Major Joseph Morris of Morgan's regiment , an officer who was regarded with high esteem and affection , not only by his commander , but by Washington and Lafayette as well .
The latter was so upset on learning of the death of Morris , that he wrote Morgan a letter , showing his own warmhearted generosity .
After complimenting Morgan and the riflemen and saying he was praising them to Congress , too , the ardent Frenchman added he felt that Congress should make some financial restitution to the widow and family of Morris , but that he knew Morgan realized how long such action usually required , if it was done at all .
`` As Mrs. Morris may be in some want before that time '' , Lafayette continued , `` I am going to trouble you with a commission which I beg you will execute with the greatest secrecy .
This was accordingly done , and the plight of the grateful Mrs. Morris was much relieved as a result of the generous loan , the amount of which is not known .
Apparently still sensitive about the idea with which General Gates had approached him at Saratoga , namely , that George Washington be replaced , Morgan was vehement in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around Philadelphia .
Richard Peters , Secretary of the Board of War , thought Morgan was so extreme on the subject that he accused him of trying to pick a quarrel .
Morgan hotly denied this and informed the Board of War that the men in camp linked the name of Peters with the plot against Washington .
Such a situation regarding the Board of War could hardly have helped Morgan's chances for promotion when that matter came before the group later on .
In late December , the American army moved from Whitemarsh to Valley Forge , and although the distance was only 13 miles , the journey took more than a week because of the bad weather , the barefooted and almost naked men .
Besides helping to prevent the movement of the British to the west , Valley Forge also obstructed the trade between Howe's forces and the farmers , thus threatening the vital subsistence of the redcoats and rendering their foraging to obtain necessary supplies extremely hazardous .
In order to see that this hindering situation remained effective , Washington detached several bodies of his troops to the periphery of the Philadelphia area .
Morgan and his corps were placed on the west side of the Schuylkill River , with instructions to intercept all supplies found going to the city and to keep a close eye on the movements of the enemy .
The headquarters of Morgan was on a farm , said to have been particularly well located so as to prevent the farmers nearby from trading with the British , a practice all too common to those who preferred to sell their produce for British gold rather than the virtually worthless Continental currency .
For example , he captured some persons from York County , who with teams were taking to Philadelphia the furniture of a man who had just been released from prison through the efforts of his wife , and who apparently was helpless to prevent the theft of his household goods .
`` They straggle at such a rate '' , he told the commander-in-chief , `` that if the enemy were enterprising , they might get two from us , when we would take one of them , which makes me wish General Howe would go on , lest any incident happen to us '' .
If the hardships of the winter at Valley Forge were trying for healthy men , they were , of course , much more so for those not in good health .
The mild activity of his command during the sojourn of the troops at Valley Forge could be handled by a subordinate , he felt , so like Henry Knox , equally loyal to Washington , who went to Boston at this time , Morgan received permission to visit his home in Virginia for several weeks .
In his absence , the rifle regiment was under the command of Major Thomas Posey , another able Virginian .
But Morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a William Pickman in Salem , Massachusetts , apparently an acquaintance , praising Washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were `` opposed by the general current of the people to exalt General Gates at the expense of General Washington was injurious to the latter .
If there be a disinterested patriot in America , 'tis General Washington , and his bravery , none can question '' .
It is doubtful if Morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children , for his pay , as shown by the War Department Abstracts of early 1778 was $75 a month as a colonel , and that apt to be delayed .
His neighbors celebrated his return , even if it was only temporary , and Morgan was especially gratified by the quaint expression of an elderly friend , Isaac Lane , who told him , `` A man that has so often left all that is dear to him , as thou hast , to serve thy country , must create a sympathetic feeling in every patriotic heart '' .
There must have been special feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too , when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France of the independence of the United States .
His fellow Virginian , George Washington , had stated , `` I believe no event was ever received with more heartfelt joy '' .
The dreary camp at Valley Forge was turned into an arena of rejoicing .
On May 6th , Morgan , who had returned , received from Washington orders to `` send out patrols under vigilant officers '' to keep near the enemy .
Apparently no serious disorders resulted from the celebration , and within a few days , Morgan joined the force of Lafayette who now had command of some 2,000 men at Barren Hill , not far above Philadelphia on the Schuylkill .
Interestingly enough , the order transmitted to Morgan through Alexander Hamilton also informed him that `` A party of Indians will join the party to be sent from your command at Whitemarsh , and act with them '' .
These were Oneida Indians .
Washington evidently was anxious for Morgan to be cautious as well as aggressive , for on May 17th , 18th and 20th he admonished the leader of the riflemen-rangers to be on the alert .
Obviously the commander-in-chief had confidence that Morgan would furnish him good intelligence too , for on the 23rd of May , he told Morgan that the British were prepared to move , perhaps in the night , and asked Morgan to have two of his best horses ready to dispatch to General Smallwood with the intelligence obtained .
Meantime , however , this same General Smallwood seemed to be serving chivalry as well as the American army .
Colonel Benjamin Ford wrote to Morgan from Wilmington that he understood a Mrs. Sanderson from Maryland had obtained permission from Smallwood to visit Philadelphia , and would return on May 26th , escorted by several officers from Maryland `` belonging to the new levies in the British service '' .
Ford urged Morgan to capture these men , who , he thought , might be disguised as Quakers or peasants .
Morgan took the suggested steps , but when Mrs. Sanderson appeared , there was nobody with her but her husband , whom he promptly sent to headquarters to be questioned .
A letter of a few days later from Washington's aide to Morgan stated , `` His Excellency is highly pleased with your conduct upon this occasion '' .
For by now the original cause of the quarrel , Philip's seizure of Gascony , was only one strand in the spider web of French interests that overlay all western Europe and that had been so well and closely spun that the lightest movement could set it trembling from one end to the other .
Even so , Edward's ambassadors can scarcely have foreseen that five years of unremitting work lay ahead of them before peace was finally made and that when it did come the countless embassies that left England for Rome during that period had very little to do with it .
When the negotiations began , his quarrel with the king of France was temporarily in abeyance , and he had no intention of reviving it so long as there was hope that French money would come to pay the troops who , under Charles of Valois , the papal vicar of Tuscany , were so valuable in the crusade against the Colonna cardinals and their Sicilian allies .
If his circumspection in regard to Philip's sensibilities went so far that he even refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage of Amadee's daughter , Agnes , to the son of the dauphin of Vienne -- a truly peacemaking move according to thirteenth-century ideas , for Savoy and Dauphine were as usual fighting on opposite sides -- for fear that he might seem to be favoring the anti-French coalition , he would certainly never take the far more drastic step of ordering the return of Gascony to Edward , even though , as he admitted to the English ambassadors , he had been advised that the original cession was invalid .
The French were now occupying Gascony and Flanders on the technical grounds that their rulers had forfeited them by a breach of the feudal contract .
But Edward was invading Scotland for precisely the same reason , and his insubordinate vassal was the ally of the king of France .
Boniface had to uphold the sacredness of the feudal contract at all costs , for it was only as suzerain of Sicily and of the Patrimony of Peter that he had any justification for his Italian wars , but in the English-Scottish-French triangle it was almost impossible for him to recognize the claims of any one of the contestants without seeming to invalidate those of the other two .
Because of these involvements in the matter at stake , Boniface lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification for the position of arbiter , and in retrospect that would seem to be sufficient reason why the English embassies to the Curia proved so fruitless .
But when the situation was so complicated that even Nogaret , one of the principal actors in the drama , could misinterpret the pope's motives , it is possible that Othon and his companions , equally baffled , attributed their difficulties to a more immediate cause .
`` Tact '' , by its very derivation , implies that its possessor keeps in touch with other people , but the author of Clericis Laicos and Unam Sanctam , the wielder of the two swords , the papal sun of which the imperial moon was but a dim reflection , the peer of Caesar and vice-regent of Christ , was so high above other human beings that he had forgotten what they were like .
This lofty disregard for others was not shared by such men as Pierre Flotte and his associates , that `` brilliant group of mediocre men '' , as Powicke calls them , who provided the brains for the French embassy that came to Rome under the nominal leadership of the archbishop of Narbonne , the duke of Burgundy , and the count of St.-Pol .
They had risen from humble beginnings by their own diligence and astuteness , they were unfettered by the codes that bound nobles like Othon or even the older generation of clerks like Hotham , and they were working for an end that their opponents had never even visualized .
Boniface was later to explain to the English that Robert of Burgundy and Guy De St.-Pol were easy enough to do business with ; ;
To the pope , head of the universal Church , to the duke of Burgundy , taking full advantage of his position on the borders of France and of the Empire , or to Othon , who found it quite natural that he should do homage to Edward for Tipperary and to the count of Savoy for Grandson , Flotte's outspoken nationalism was completely incomprehensible .
The Frenchman's answer was a terse `` Vous dites vrai '' .
Loyal and unscrupulous , with a single-minded ambition to which he devoted all his energies , he outmatched the English diplomats time and time again until , by a kind of poetic justice , he fell at the battle of Courtrai , the victim of the equally nationalistic if less articulate Flemings .
The Scots had found a new leader in William Wallace , and Edward's yearly expeditions across the Border called for evermounting taxes , which only increased his difficulties with the barons and the clergy .
He was unable to send any more help to his allies on the Continent , and during the next few years many of them , left to resist French pressure unaided , surrendered to the inevitable and made their peace with Philip .
The defeat and death of Adolf of Nassau at the hands of Albert of Habsburg also worked to the disadvantage of the English , for all the efforts to revive the anti-French coalition came to nothing when Philip made an alliance with the new king of the Romans .
These shifts in alliance and allegiance not only increased the difficulties confronting the English embassy as a whole , but also directly involved the two Savoyards , Amadee and Othon .
In spite of the armistice negotiated by Amadee two years earlier , the war between Bishop Guillaume of Lausanne and Louis of Savoy was still going on , and although little is known about it , that little proves that it was yet another phase of the struggle against French expansion and was closely interwoven with the larger conflict .
A second truce had been arbitrated in April , 1298 , by Jean D'Arlay , lord of Chalon-sur-Saone , the most staunch of Edward's Burgundian allies , and these last were represented in the discussions at the Curia by Gautier de Montfaucon , Othon's neighbor and a member of the Vaudois coalition .
But although in many of these discussions Othon and Amadee might have been tempted to consider their own interests as well as those of the king , Edward's confidence in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders of the embassy .
The younger men , Vere , and Pembroke , who was also Edward's cousin and whose Lusignan blood gave him the swarthy complexion that caused Edward of Carnarvon's irreverent friend , Piers Gaveston , to nickname him `` Joseph the Jew '' , were relatively new to the game of diplomacy , but Pontissara had been on missions to Rome before , and Hotham , a man of great learning , `` jocund in speech , agreeable to meet , of honest religion , and pleasing in the eyes of all '' , and an archbishop to boot , was as reliable and experienced as Othon himself .
Underneath all the high-sounding phrases of royal and papal letters and behind the more down-to-earth instructions to the envoys was the inescapable fact that Edward would have to desert his Flemish allies and leave them to the vengeance of their indignant suzerain , the king of France , in return for being given an equally free hand with the insubordinate Scots .
In the eyes of those who still cared for such things , it was a reflection on his honor , and it gave further grounds for complaint to his overtaxed subjects , who were already grumbling -- although probably not in Latin -- `` Non est lex sana Quod regi sit mea lana '' .
Bad relations between England and Flanders brought hard times to the shepherds scattered over the dales and downs as well as to the crowded Flemish cities , and while the English , so far , had done no more than grumble , Othon had seen what the discontent might lead to , for before he left the Low Countries the citizens of Ghent had risen in protest against the expense of supporting Edward and his troops , and the regular soldiers had found it unexpectedly difficult to put down the nasty little riot that ensued .
In all the talk of feudal rights , the knights and bishops must never forget the woolworkers , nor was it easy to do so , for all along the road to Italy they passed the Florentine pack trains going home with their loads of raw wool from England and rough Flemish cloth , the former to be spun and woven by the Arte Della Lana and the latter to be refined and dyed by the Arte Della Calimala with the pigment recently discovered in Asia Minor by one of their members , Bernardo Rucellai , the secret of which they jealously kept for themselves .
These chatty merchants made amusing and instructive traveling companions , for their business took them to all four corners of the globe , and Florentine gossip had already reached a high stage of development as even a cursory glance at the Inferno will prove .
They had other topics of conversation , besides their news from courts and fairs , which were of interest to Othon , the builder of castles in Wales and churches in his native country .
Behind him lay the Low Countries , where men were still completing the cathedrals that a later Florentine would describe as `` a malediction of little tabernacles , one on top of the other , with so many pyramids and spires and leaves that it is a wonder they stand up at all , for they look as though they were made of paper instead of stone or marble '' ; ;
the Low Countries , where the Middle Ages were to last for another two centuries and die out only when Charles the Bold of Burgundy met his first defeat in the fields and forests below the walls of Grandson .
My father would have done it if it hadn't been for my mother , who had a fear of being in debt to anyone -- even Alfred Alpert .
One of the people who was afraid of Alfred was his own brother , Lew .
I don't know how and I don't know why but the two stores , the one in Margaretville and the one in Fleischmanns that had been set up as a partnership , were dissolved , separated from each other .
Alfred , who was a good deal older than Harry , had treated him like a son , and when Harry decided to stay in business with Lew instead of going with Alfred , Alfred looked on the decision as a betrayal .
From that day on he never spoke to Harry or to Lew , or to Lew's two boys , Mort and Jimmy .
I became fifteen , sixteen , then twenty , and still Tessie Alpert sat on the porch with a rose in her hair , and Alfred got richer and sicker with diabetes .
It was in the spring of the year when he took to his bed and Tessie and Alfred found out that they didn't know each other .
And when Alfred was forced into his bed , Tessie left the front porch of the store and sat at home , rocking in her rocker in the living room , staring out the window -- the rose still in her hair .
Spring was life -- and Alfred Alpert in his sickroom was death .
He didn't want Alfred to leave me trouble because that's all it would be , and Alfred understood .
The day Alfred left his home and Fleischmanns he gave up the convictions of a lifetime .
He sent me for Meltzer the Butcher , whom he wanted not as a friend but as a rabbi .
I sat down to wait , and I watched Tessie Alpert , who hadn't moved or said a word but kept staring out of the window .
Then Meltzer's voice , quiet , calm , strong , started the Kaddish , the prayer for the dead .
I could hear Alfred's voice a few words behind Meltzer's like a counterpoint , punctuated by sobs of sorrow and resignation .
Alfred , leaning on Meltzer , stopped for a minute to look at Tessie .
The car began to move and Harry ran after it crying , `` Alfred ! !
I went to visit Alfred in the Kingston Hospital a few times .
The first time I went there he asked me to bring him water from Flagler's well -- water that reminded him of his first days in the mountains -- and before I came the next time I filled a five-gallon jug for him and brought it to the hospital .
Mr. Banks was always called Banks the Butcher until he left town and the shop passed over to Meltzer the Scholar who then became automatically Meltzer the Butcher .
He came to Fleischmanns directly from the boat that brought him to America from Russia .
He was filled with knowledge of the Bible and the Talmud .
Banks the Butcher took Meltzer the Scholar as an apprentice and he made it very clear that a man of learning must be able to do more than just quote the Commentaries of the Talmud in order to live .
So Meltzer learned a new trade from Banks , who supplied the town and the hotels with meat .
The daughter , Lilly , was a very good friend of mine and I always had hopes that someday she and Meltzer would find each other .
They lived in the same house and it didn't seem to be such a hard thing to do , but the sad realities of Lilly's life and the fact that Meltzer didn't love her never satisfied my wishful thinking .
Lilly Banks and I became friends .
And Lilly's whole family seemed to be an apology for Mr. Banks .
For every rude word of Mr. Banks's the family had five in apology .
Every chance I got I left the hotel to visit Lilly .
I would have liked the town and the busyness of its people but I always followed Lilly into the peace of the silent and unstaring road .
We were almost the same age , she was fifteen , I was twelve , and where I felt there was a life to look forward to Lilly felt she had had as much of it as was necessary .
The song , he said , was called `` The Stream's Lullaby '' , and when he sang , `` Gute ruh , Gute ruh , Mach't die augen zu , '' there was such longing and such simple sadness that it frightened me .
Later , when I was older , I found the song was part of Schubert's Die Schone Mullerin .
In archaeology , for example , the contributions of Frederick Haverfield and Reginald Smith to the various volumes of the Victoria County Histories raised the discipline from the status of an antiquarian pastime to that of the most valuable single tool of the early English historian .
And with the publication of E. T. Leeds' Archaeology Of The Anglo-Saxon Settlements the student was presented with an organized synthesis of the archaeological data then known .
Even in the nineteenth century such accomplished philologists as Kemble and Guest were led into what now seem ludicrous errors because of their failure to recognize that modern forms of place names are not necessarily the result of logical philological development .
It was therefore not until the publication of J.H. Round's `` The Settlement Of The South And East Saxons '' , and W.H. Stevenson's `` Dr. Guest And The English Conquest Of South Britain '' , that a scientific basis for place-name studies was established .
Although because of the important achievements of nineteenth century scholars in the field of textual criticism the advance is not so striking as it was in the case of archaeology and place-names , the editorial principles laid down by Stevenson in his great edition of Asser and in his Crawford Charters were a distinct improvement upon those of his predecessors and remain unimproved upon today .
And it is this , particularly the establishment of archaeology and place-name studies on a scientific basis , which are immediately pertinent to the Saxon Shore .
Almost inevitably , the first result of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and in many cases the conclusions of the Oxford school of Stubbs , Freeman and ( particularly ) Green regarding the nature of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain .
Charles Plummer in the introduction and notes to his splendid edition of Bede voiced some early doubts concerning the `` elaborate superstructure '' they raised up over the slim foundations afforded by the traditional narratives of the conquest .
It was Plummer , in fact , who coined the much quoted remark : `` Mr. Green indeed writes as if he had been present at the landing of the Saxons and had watched every step of their subsequent progress '' .
Sir Henry Howorth , writing in 1898 , put himself firmly in the Lappenburg-Kemble tradition by attacking the veracity of the West Saxon annals .
Early in the present century , W. H. Stevenson continued the attack with a savage article against Guest .
Following him in varying degrees of scepticism were T.W. Shore , H.M. Chadwick , Thomas Hodgkin and F. G. Beck .
By 1913 , Ferdinand Lot could begin an article subtitled `` La Conquete De La Grande-Bretagne par Les Saxons '' with the words , `` Il est difficile aujourd'hui d'entretenir des illusions sur la valeur du recit traditionnel de la conquete de la Grande-Bretagne .
'' It is also worthy of note that Lot cited both Kemble and Lappenberg with favor in that article .
Although one meets with occasional extremists like Zachrisson or , very recently , Arthur Wade-Evans the majority of scholars have taken a middle position between the extremes of scepticism and gullibility .
Most now admit that Bede , Gildas , Nennius and The Anglo-Saxon Chronicles cannot be the infallible guides to early English history that Guest , Freeman and Green thought them to be .
As R.H. Hodgkin has remarked : `` The critical methods of the nineteenth century shattered most of this picturesque narrative .
On the other hand , the consensus of opinion is that , used with caution and in conjunction with other types of evidence , the native sources still provide a valid rough outline for the English settlement of southern Britain .
As Sir Charles Oman once said , `` it is no longer fashionable to declare that we can say nothing certain about Old English origins '' .
Therefore , in one way Kemble and Lappenberg have been vindicated .
Their conclusions concerning the untrustworthiness of the West Saxon annals , the confused chronology of Bede , the unreliability of the early positions of the Anglo-Saxon genealogies and the mythological elements contained in Nennius are now mostly accepted .
At this point , of course , the issue has become complicated by a development unforeseen by Lappenberg and Kemble .
They , however much they were in disagreement with the late Victorians over the method by which Britain was Germanized , agreed with them that the end result was the complete extinction of the previous Celtic population and civilization .
But beginning , for all practical purposes , with Frederick Seebohm's English Village Community scholars have had to reckon with a theory involving institutional and agrarian continuity between Roman and Anglo-Saxon times which is completely at odds with the reigning concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions .
Against Seebohm formidable foes have taken the field , notably F. W. Maitland , whose Domesday Book And Beyond was written expressly for this purpose , and Sir Paul Vinogradoff whose The Growth Of The Manor had a similar aim .
H.L. Gray in his English Field Systems and Zachrisson's Romans , Kelts And Saxons defended in part the Seebohm thesis while at the present time H.P.R. Finberg and Gordon Copley seem to fall into the Celtic survivalist camp .
In the main stream of historical thinking is a group of scholars , H.M. Chadwick , R.H. Hodgkin , Sir Frank Stenton et al. who are in varying degrees sceptical of the native traditions of the conquest but who defend the catastrophic type of invasion suggested by them .
As a group they should be favorable to a concept of gradual Germanic infiltration although the specialist nature of much of their work , e.g. Seebohm , Gray and Finberg , tends to obscure their sympathies .
Those who do have occasion to deal with the invasions in a more general way , like T.W. Shore and Arthur Wade-Evans , are on the side of a gradual and often peaceful Germanic penetration into Britain .
Wade-Evans , in fact , denies that there were any Anglo-Saxon invasions at all other than a minor Jutish foray in A.D. 514 .
Now omitting for a moment some recent developments we can say the Saxon Shore hypothesis of Lappenberg and Kemble has undergone virtual eclipse in this century .
Everyone is more or less sceptical and virtually no one has been willing to accept Lappenberg or Kemble's position on that point .
The few scholars who have adopted the `` shore occupied by '' interpretation , Howorth , Shore , and Wade-Evans , have all been Celtic survivalists .
Again omitting recent developments , E.T. Leeds' dictum of 1913 has stood unchallenged : `` So far as archaeology is concerned , there is not the least warrant for the second ( shore occupied by ) of these theories '' .
What they meant was that there was no evidence to show that the south and east coasts of Britain received Germanic settlers conspicuously earlier than some other parts of England .
That is , there was no trace of Anglo-Saxons in Britain as early as the late third century , to which time the archaeological evidence for the erection of the Saxon Shore forts was beginning to point .
The great increase in the amount of archaeological activity , and therefore information , in the years immediately preceeding and following the Second World War has brought to light data which has changed the complection of the Saxon Shore dispute .
We know that the Saxon Shore was a phenonenon of late Roman defensive policy ; ;
So whenever the Romans finally withdrew from the island , the Saxon Shore disappeared in the first decade of the fifth century .
We also know that the Saxon Shore as reflected in the Notitia was created as a part of the Theodosian reorganization of Britain ( post A.D. 369 ) .
My argument is that there was no Saxon Shore prior to that time even though the forts had been in existence since the time of Carausius .
Therefore , what we must prove or disprove is that there were Saxons , in the broad sense in which we must construe the word , in the area of the Saxon Shore at the time it was called the Saxon Shore .
That is , we must find Saxons in East Anglia , Kent , Sussex and Hampshire in the last half of the fourth century .
In Gaul the Saxon element on its Saxon Shore was plainly visible because there the Saxons were an intrusive element in the population .
In Britain , obviously , the archaeological and place-name characteristics of the Saxon Shore region are bound to be Saxon .
It is a matter of trying to sort out an earlier fourth-century Saxon element from the later , fifth-century mainstream of Anglo-Saxon invasions .
Baker gave Leonard Wood credit for the initiation of the draft of soldiers ; ;
Wood took the proposal to Chief of Staff Hugh L. Scott , who passed it on to Baker a month before the actual declaration of war against Germany .
The Secretary of War gave his assent after studying the history of the draft in the American Civil War as well as the British volunteer system in World War 1 .
He concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable moral effects of the British reliance on enlistment only -- `` where the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning white feathers on reluctant young men , orators preaching hate of the Germans , and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist out of motives of revenge and retaliation '' .
Baker took the plan to Wilson who said : `` Baker , this is plainly right on any ground .
Start to prepare the necessary legislation so that if I am obliged to go to Congress the bills will be ready for immediate consideration '' .
The result was that by secret agreement draft machinery was actually ready long before the country knew that the device was to take the place of the volunteering method which Theodore Roosevelt favored .
Before the Draft Act was passed Baker had confidentially briefed governors , sheriffs , and prospective draft board members on the administration of the measure -- and the confidence was kept so well that only one newspaper learned what was going on .
It was Baker , working through Provost Marshal Enoch Crowder and Major Hugh S. ( `` Old Ironpants '' ) Johnson , who arranged for a secret printing by the million of selective service blanks -- again before the Act was passed -- until corridors in the Government Printing Office were full and the basement of the Washington Post Office was stacked to the ceiling .
General Crowder proposed that Regular Army officers select the draftees in cities and towns throughout the nation ; ;
Even so , the Draft Act encountered rough sledding in its progress through the Congress .
Democratic Speaker Champ Clark saw little difference between a conscript and a convict .
Democrat Stanley H. Dent , Chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee , declined to introduce the bill .
Democratic Floor Leader Claude Kitchin would have no part of the measure .
In the judgment of Chief of Staff Scott it was ironic that the draft policy of a Democratic President , aimed at Germany , had to be pushed through the House of Representatives by the ranking minority member of the Military Affairs Committee -- a Republican Jew born in Germany ! !
He was Julius Kahn for whom the Chief of Staff thought no honor could be too great .
After Kahn's death in 1924 Scott wrote : `` May he rest in peace with the eternal gratitude of his adopted country '' .
In spite of powerful opposition the Draft Act finally passed Congress on May 17 , 1917 .
The day passed without incident in spite of the warning of Senator James A. Reed of Missouri : `` Baker , you will have the streets of our American cities running with blood on registration day '' .
On July 20 , the first drawing of numbers occurred in the Senate Office Building before a distinguished group of congressmen and high Army officers .
Secretary of War Baker , blindfolded , put his hand into a large glass bowl and drew the initial number of those to be called .
A man in Mississippi wired : `` Thanks for drawing 258 -- that's me '' .
In a matter of months the War Department built thirty-two camps , each one accommodating fifty thousand men -- sixteen were under canvas in the South and sixteen with frame structures in the North .
At Camp Taylor in Kentucky a barracks was built in an hour and a half from timber that had been standing in Mississippi forests one week before .
The total operation was a construction project comparable in magnitude with the Panama Canal , but in 1917 time was in short supply ; ;
In later years Josephus Daniels was to claim that World War 1 , was the first in American history in which there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers .
In spite of this catastrophe the final mortality figure from disease in the American Army during World War 1 , was 15 per 1,000 per year , contrasted with 110 per 1,000 per year in the Mexican War , and 65 in the American Civil War .
Both Secretary of War Baker and Secretary of Navy Daniels devoted much time and effort to the problem of providing reasonably normal and wholesome activities in camp for the millions of men who had been removed from their home environment .
six days after war was declared he appointed Raymond Fosdick chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities ( the CTCA ) .
Fosdick , a brother of minister Harry Emerson Fosdick , was a graduate of Princeton , and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the American Philosophical Association .
His assignment was not a new one because Baker had sent him to the Mexican border in 1916 to investigate lurid newspaper stories about lack of discipline , drunkenness , and venereal disease in American military camps .
Fosdick had found the installations surrounded by a battery of saloons and houses of prostitution , with filles de joie from all over the country flocking to San Antonio , Laredo , and El Paso to `` woman the cribs '' .
He also ascertained that many officers were indifferent to the problem , including Commanding General Frederick Funston who gave Fosdick the nickname of `` Reverend '' .
On the basis of the long chronicle of military history Funston and his brethren assumed that the issue was insoluble and that anyone interested in a mission like Fosdick's was an impractical idealist or a do-gooder .
During the brief Mexican venture Fosdick's report to the Secretary recommended a definite stand by the War Department against the saloon and the excesses of prostitution .
Both Baker and Fosdick knew that a substitute was necessary , that a verboten approach was not the real answer .
When the United States entered the First World War Baker made certain that the Draft Act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps in which prostitution was outlawed .
Even so Fosdick , as the new Chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities , encountered strong and vociferous opposition .
New Orleans had a notorious red-light district extending over twenty-eight city blocks , and the business-minded mayor of the city journeyed to Washington to present the case for `` the God-given right of men to be men '' .
In Europe , Premier Clemenceau , showing his animal proclivities as the `` Tiger of France '' , asked Pershing by letter for the creation of special houses where the sexual desires of American men could be satisfied .
When Fosdick showed the letter to Baker his negative response was : `` For God's sake , Raymond , don't show this to the President or he'll stop the war '' .
Ultimately Fosdick's `` Fit to fight '' slogan swept across the country and every well-known red-light district in the United States was closed , a hundred and ten of them .
The result was that the rate of venereal disease in the American Army was the lowest in our military history .
The wholesome activities were to be provided by many organizations including the YMCA , the Knights of Columbus , the Jewish Welfare Board , the American Library Association , and the Playground and Recreation Association -- private societies which voluntarily performed the job that was taken over almost entirely by the Special Services Division of the Army itself in World War 2 .
Over these voluntary agencies , in 1917-18 , the CTCA served as a co-ordinating body in carrying out what Survey called `` the most stupendous piece of social work in modern times '' .
Under Fosdick the first executive officer of the CTCA was Richard Byrd , whose name in later years was to become synonymous with activities at the polar antipodes .
From the point of view of popularity the best-known member of the Commission was Walter Camp , the Yale athlete whose sobriquet was `` the father of American football '' .
The CTCA program of activities was profuse : William Farnum and Mary Pickford on the screen , Elsie Janis and Harry Lauder on the stage , books provided by the American Library Association , full equipment for games and sports -- except that no `` bones '' were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played on any floor and known as `` African golf '' .
The CTCA distributed a khaki-bound songbook that provided the impetus for spirited renditions of the selections found therein , plus a number of others whose lyrics were more earthy -- from `` Johnny Get Your Gun '' to `` Keep The Home Fires Burning '' to `` Mademoiselle From Armentieres '' .
In the imagination of the nineteenth century the Greek tragedians and Shakespeare stand side by side , their affinity transcending all the immense contrarieties of historical circumstance , religious belief , and poetic form .
We no longer use the particular terms of Lessing and Victor Hugo .
The word `` tragedy '' encloses for us in a single span both the Greek and the Elizabethan example .
The sense of relationship overreaches the historical truth that Shakespeare may have known next to nothing of the actual works of Aeschylus , Sophocles , and Euripides .
It transcends the glaring fact that the Elizabethans mixed tragedy and comedy whereas the Greeks kept the two modes severely distinct .
Comparable visions of life are at work in Antigone and Romeo And Juliet .
We see at once what Victor Hugo means when he calls Macbeth a northern scion of the house of Atreus .
Elsinore seems to lie in a range of Mycenae , and the fate of Orestes resounds in that of Hamlet .
The hounds of hell search out their quarry in Apollo's sanctuary as they do in the tent of Richard 3 .
It is not between Euripides and Shakespeare that the western mind turns away from the ancient tragic sense of life .
I say the late seventeenth century because Racine ( whom Lessing did not really know ) stands on the far side of the chasm .
The image of man which enters into force with Aeschylus is still vital in Phedre and Athalie .
Shakespeare is closer to Sophocles than he is to Pope and Voltaire .
The modes of the imagination implicit in Athenian tragedy continued to shape the life of the mind until the age of Descartes and Newton .
With the Discours de la methode and the Principia the things undreamt of in Horatio's philosophy seem to pass from the world .
In Greek tragedy as in Shakespeare , mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man .
The reality of Orestes entails that of the Furies ; ;
the Weird Sisters wait for the soul of Macbeth .
We cannot conceive of Oedipus without a Sphinx , nor of Hamlet without a Ghost .
The shadows cast by the personages of Greek and Shakespearean drama lengthen into a greater darkness .
The thunderclaps over the sacred wood at Colonus and the storms in King Lear are caused by more than weather .
But it can no longer be so once Benjamin Franklin ( the incarnation of the new rational man ) has flown a kite to it .
Mortality is the pacing of a brief and dangerous watch , and to all sentinels , whether at Elsinore or on the battlements at Mycenae , the coming of dawn has its breath of miracle .
But at the touch of Hume and Voltaire the noble or hideous visitations which had haunted the mind since Agamemnon's blood cried out for vengeance , disappeared altogether or took tawdry refuge among the gaslights of melodrama .
In Athens , in Shakespeare's England , and at Versailles , the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest .
The same metaphors of swift ascent and calamitous decline apply to Oedipus and Macbeth because they applied also to Alcibiades and Essex .
Agamemnon , Creon , and Medea perform their tragic actions before the eyes of the polis .
Similarly the sufferings of Hamlet , Othello , or Phedre engage the fortunes of the state .
Greek and Elizabethan life and , to a certain extent , the life of Versailles shared this character of intense `` publicity '' .
The art of Defoe and Richardson is founded on an awareness of this great change .
In the eighteenth century there emerges for the first time the notion of a private tragedy ( or nearly for the first time , there having been a small number of Elizabethan domestic tragedies such as the famous Arden Of Feversham ) .
In La Nouvelle-Heloise and Werther tragedy is made intimate .
I have said before how difficult it is to make any precise statements with regard to the character of the Greek and Elizabethan public .
I mean such concepts as the presence of the supernatural in human affairs , the sacraments of grace and divine retribution , the idea of preordainment ( the oracle over Oedipus , the prophecy of the witches to Macbeth , or God's covenant with His people in Athalie ) .
These conceptions and the manner in which they were transposed into poetry or engendered by poetic form are intrinsic to western life from the time of Aeschylus to that of Shakespeare .
And although they were , as I have indicated , under increasing strain at the time of Racine , they are still alive in his theatre .
They are as decisively present in the Oresteia and Oedipus as in Macbeth , King Lear , and Phedre .
After Shakespeare the master spirits of western consciousness are no longer the blind seers , the poets , or Orpheus performing his art in the face of hell .
They are Descartes , Newton , and Voltaire .
Rousseau's primitivism , the anti-Newtonian mythology of Blake , Coleridge's organic metaphysics , Victor Hugo's image of the poets as the Magi , and Shelley's `` unacknowledged legislators '' are related elements in the rear-guard action fought by the romantics against the new scientific rationalism .
From this action sprang the idea of somehow uniting Greek and Shakespearean drama into a new total form , capable of restoring to life the ancient moral and poetic responses .
The dream of achieving a synthesis between the Sophoclean and the Shakespearean genius inspired the ambitions of poets and composers from the time of Shelley and Victor Hugo to that of Bayreuth .
But the attempt itself produced a number of brilliant works , and these form a transition from the early romantic period to the new age of Ibsen and Chekhov .
The wedding of the Hellenic to the northern genius was one of the dominant motifs in Goethe's thought .
His Italian journey was a poet's version of those perennial thrusts across the Alps of the German emperors of the Middle Ages .
The dream of a descent into the gardens of the south always drew German ambitions toward Rome and Sicily .
Goethe asks in Wilhelm Meister whether we know the land where the lemon trees flower , and the light of the Mediterranean glows through Torquato Tasso and the Roman Elegies .
Goethe believed that the Germanic spirit , with its grave strength but flagrant streaks of brutality and intolerance , should be tempered with the old sensuous wisdom and humanism of the Hellenic .
On the narrower ground of poetic form , he felt that in the drama of the future the Greek conception of tragic fate should be joined to the Shakespearean vision of tragic will .
The wager between God and Satan brings on the destiny of Faust , but Faust assumes his role voluntarily .
The third Act of Faust 2 , is a formal celebration of the union between the Germanic and the classic , between the spirit of Euripides and that of romantic drama .
The motif of Faust's love for Helen of Troy goes back to the sources of the Faustian legend .
It is thus that the brightness of Helen passes through Marlowe's Faustus .
Faust rescuing Helen from Menelaus' vengeance is the genius of renaissance Europe restoring to life the classic tradition .
The necromantic change from the palace at Sparta to Faust's Gothic castle directs us to the aesthetic meaning of the myth -- the translation of antique drama into Shakespearean and romantic guise .
The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the richest recusant in his diocese , worth five hundred pounds a year in lands and goods .
When Quiney and William Parsons wrote to Greville in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff , they sent the letter to Mr. William Sawnders , attendant on the worshipful Mr. Thomas Bushell at Marston .
Mr. Bushell was mentioned in 1602 in the will of Joyce Hobday , widow of a Stratford glover .
His daughter Elinor married Quiney's son Adrian in 1613 , and his son Henry married Mary Lane of Stratford in 1609 .
His son Thomas , aged fifteen when he entered Oxford in 1582 , married as his first wife Margaret , sister of Sir Edward Greville .
Bridges , a son by his second wife , was christened at Pebworth in 1607 , but Thomas the younger was living at Packwood two years later and sold Broad Marston manor in 1622 .
A third Thomas Bushell ( 1594-1674 ) , `` much loved '' by Bacon , called himself `` The Superlative Prodigall '' in The First Part of Youths Errors ( 1628 ) and became an expert on silver mines and on the art of running into debt .
Edward Greville , born about 1565 , had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father Lodowick for murder in 1589 .
He refused his consent to the election of Quiney as bailiff in 1592 , but gave it at the request of the recorder , his cousin Sir Fulke Greville .
The corporation entertained him for dinner at Quiney's house in 1596/7 , with wine and sugar sent by the bailiff , Sturley .
At Milcote on November 3 , 1597 , the aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter .
Sturley wrote to Quiney that Sir Edward `` gave his allowance and liking thereof , and affied unto us his best endeavour , so that his rights be preserved '' , and that `` Sir Edward saith we shall not be at any fault for money for prosecuting the cause , for himself will procure it and lay it down for us for the time '' .
Greville proposed Quiney as the fittest man `` for the following of the cause and to attend him in the matter '' , and at his suggestion the corporation allowed Quiney two shillings a day .
`` If you can firmly make the good knight sure to pleasure our Corporation '' , Sturley wrote , `` besides that ordinary allowance for your diet you shall have 20 for recompence '' .
In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24 , 1597/8 , Sturley asked Quiney especially that `` theare might ( be ) bi Sir Ed. Grev. some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie .
Sir Ed. Gre. is gonne to Brestowe and from thence to Lond. as I heare , who verie well knoweth our estates and wil be willinge to do us ani good '' .
The knights for Warwickshire in this parliament , which ended its session on February 9 , were Fulke Greville ( the poet ) and William Combe of Warwick , as Fulke Greville and Edward Greville had been in 1593 .
The corporation voted on September 27 , 1598 , that Quiney should ride to London about the suit to Sir John Fortescue , chancellor of the Exchequer , for discharging of the tax and subsidy .
He had been in London for several weeks when he wrote to Shakespeare on October 25 .
Sturley on November 4 answered a letter from Quiney written on October 25 which imported , wrote Sturley , `` that our countriman Mr. Wm. Shak. would procure us monei : which I will like of as I shall heare when , wheare & howe : and I prai let not go that occasion if it mai sort to ani indifferent condicions .
Sturley quoted Quiney as having written on November 1 that if he had `` more monei presente much might be done to obtaine our Charter enlargd , ij faires more , with tole of corne , bestes , and sheepe , and a matter of more valewe then all that '' .
He suggested offering half to Sir Edward , fearing lest `` he shall thinke it to good for us and procure it for himselfe , as he served us the last time '' .
This refers to what had happened after the Earl of Warwick died in 1590 , when the town petitioned Burghley for the right to name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but Greville bought the lordship for himself .
Sturley's allusion probably explains why Greville took out the patent in the names of Best and Wells , for Sir Anthony Ashley described Best as `` a scrivener within Temple Bar , that deals in many matters for my L. Essex '' through Sir Gelly Merrick , especially in `` causes that he would not be known of '' .
Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach London on November 1 .
Yff yow bargen with Wm. Sha. ( so in the MS ) or Receave money ther or brynge your money home yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them at Aysshom .
This seems to refer , not to the loan Richard had asked for , but to a proposed bargain with Shakespeare .
Richard Quiney the younger , a schoolboy of eleven , wrote a letter in Latin asking his father to buy copybooks ( `` chartaceos libellos ) '' ) for him and his brother .
His mother Bess , who could not write herself , reminded her husband through Sturley to buy the apron he had promised her and `` a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined & trimmed with silke '' ( for John , only a year old ) .
A letter signed `` Isabell Bardall '' entreated `` Good Cozen '' Quiney to find her stepson Adrian , son of George Bardell , a place in London with some handicraftsman .
William Parsons and William Walford , drapers , asked Quiney to see to business matters in London .
Daniel Baker deluged his `` Unckle Quyne '' with requests to pay money for him to drapers in Watling Street and at the Two Cats in Canning Street .
His letter of October 26 named two of the men about whom Quiney had written to Shakespeare the day before .
Baker wrote : `` I tooke order with Sr. E. Grevile for the payment of Ceartaine monei beefore his going towardes London .
& 20 more Mr. Peeter Rowswell tooke order with his master to paie for mee '' .
He asked Quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and , if not , to send to the lodging of Sir Edward and entreat him to pay what he owed .
Baker added : `` I pray you delivre these inclosed Letters And Comend mee to Mr. Rychard Mytton whoe I know will ffreind mee for the payment of this monei '' .
Further letters in November mention that Sir Edward paid forty pounds .
The queen agreed on December 17 , a warrant was signed on January 27 , and the Exchequer paid Quiney his expenses on February 27 , 1598/9 .
He listed what he had spent for `` My own diet in London eighteen weeks , in which I was sick a month ; ;
He was allowed forty-four pounds in all , including fees to the masters of requests , Mr. Fanshawe of the Exchequer , the solicitor general , and other officials and their clerks .
Since more is known about Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford , his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602 .
During 1598 and 1599 he made `` manye Guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon Cowrtiers & others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande '' .
He was in London `` searching records for our town's causes '' in 1600 with young Henry Sturley , the assistant schoolmaster .
When Sir Edward Greville enclosed the town commons on the Bancroft , Quiney and others leveled his hedges on January 21 , 1600/1 , and were charged with riot by Sir Edward .
Accompanied by `` Master Greene our solicitor '' ( Thomas Greene of the Middle Temple , Shakespeare's `` cousin '' ) , Quiney tried to consult Sir Edward Coke , attorney general , and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper `` that we might have access to their master for his counsel butt colde nott have him att Leasure by the reason of thees trobles '' ( the Essex rising on February 8 ) .
He set down that `` I gave Mr. Greene a pynte of muskadell and a roll of bread that last morning I went to have his company to Master Attorney '' .
After returning Stratford he drew up a defense of the town's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it , and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and Shakespeare's father .
Quiney was in London again in June , 1601 , and in November , when he rode up , as Shakespeare must often have done , by way of Oxford , High Wycombe , and Uxbridge , and home through Aylesbury and Banbury .
After Quiney was elected bailiff in September , 1601 , without Greville's approval , Greene wrote him that Coke had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised `` that the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you , ( Sr. Edwardes his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you ) '' .
Asked by the townsmen to cease his suit , Greville had answered that `` hytt shulde coste hym 500 first & sayed it must be tried ether before my Lorde Anderson in the countrey or his uncle Ffortescue in the exchequer with whom he colde more prevaile then we '' .
The corporation proposed Chief Justice Anderson for an arbiter , sending him a gift of sack and claret .
Lady Greville , daughter of the late Lord Chancellor Bromley and niece of Sir John Fortescue , was offered twenty pounds by the townsmen to make peace ; ;
His servant Robin Whitney threatened Quiney , who had Whitney bound to `` the good abaringe '' to keep the peace .
A report of Sr. Edw Grevyles minaces to the Baileefe Aldermen & Burgesses of Stratforde '' tells how Quiney was injured by Greville's men : `` in the tyme Mr. Ryc' Quyney was bayleefe ther came some of them whoe beinge druncke fell to braweling in ther hosts howse wher thei druncke & drewe ther dagers uppon the hoste : att a faier tyme the Baileefe being late abroade to see the towne in order & comminge by in hurley burley came into the howse & commawnded the peace to be kept butt colde nott prevayle & in hys endevor to sticle the brawle had his heade grevouselye brooken by one of hys ( Greville's ) men whom nether hymselfe ( Greville ) punnished nor wolde suffer to be punnished but with a shewe to turne them awaye & enterteyned agayne '' .
The fall of Rome , the discovery of precious metals , and the Protestant Reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed .
The failure of Greece to reach the imperial destiny that Periclean Athens had seemed to promise was almost directly attributable to her physical conformation .
What evidence is available would seem to indicate that Brooks , unlike his older brother Henry , had most of the methodological vices usually found in the amateur .
His credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to The Emancipation Of Massachusetts , which purports to examine the trials of Moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the Israelite exodus from Egypt and the leadership of the Puritan clergy in colonial New England .
Much criticism has been leveled at this rather forced analogy , but what is equally significant is Adams' complete acceptance of the Biblical record as `` good and trustworthy history '' .
Moreover , he rejects the contemporary accounts of Englishmen , casually adjudging them to be distorted by prejudice because `` the opinions of Englishmen are of no great value '' .
What is exposited by this observation is not the inherent prejudices of Englishmen but the Anglophobia of Brooks Adams .
Brooks Adams preferred the chronicles of Froissart or the style and theorizing of Edward Gibbon , for at least they took a stand on the issues about which they wrote .
He wrote eloquently to William James that impartial history was not only impossible but undesirable .
On matters of race he was similarly inflexible : `` Most of the modern Latin races seem to have inherited the rigidity of the Roman mind '' .
He cites the French Revolution as typifying this rigidity but makes no mention of the Italians , who have been able to adapt to all types of circumstances .
J. T. Shotwell was appalled by such spurious history as that which attributed the fall of the Carolingian empire to the woolen trade , and he urged Adams to `` transform his essay into a real history , embodying not merely those facts which fit into his theory , but also the modifications and exceptions '' .
A. M. Wergeland called the Adams method literally antihistorical , while Clive Day maintained that the assumptions were not confined to theories alone but were also applicable to straight factual evidence .
Moreover , stated Day , `` He always omits facts which tend to disprove his hypothesis '' .
Even D. A. Wasson , who compared The Emancipation Of Massachusetts to the lifting of a fog from ancient landscapes , was also forced to admit the methodological deficiencies of the author .
In summary , Brooks Adams felt that the nature of history was order and that the order so discovered was as much subject to historical laws as the forces of nature .
In the final analysis his contribution to American historiography was founded on almost intuitive insights into religion , economics , and Darwinism , the three factors which conditioned his search for a law of history .
There was no evidence , either of a positive or negative type , of the actions of a Divine Being in this world ; ;
The dark views about the Puritans found in The Emancipation Of Massachusetts were never altered .
In The Law Of Civilization And Decay Brooks Adams traced this evolution , always pointing to the fact that although the forms became more rational , the substance remained unchanged .
The relic worship and monasticism of the Middle Ages were more advanced forms than were primitive fetish worship and nature myths .
Stephens had written his classic `` incidents of travel '' about these regions a hundred years before , and Catherwood , who had studied Piranesi in London and the great ruins of Egypt and Greece , had drawn the splendid illustrations that accompanied the text .
Catherwood , an architect in New York , had been forgotten , like Stephens , and Victor reconstructed their lives as one reconstructs , for a museum , a dinosaur from two or three petrified bones .
He had unearthed Stephens's letters in a New Jersey farmhouse and he discovered Stephens's unmarked grave in an old cemetery on the east side of New York , where the great traveller had been hastily buried during a cholera epidemic .
Victor had been stirred by my account of him in Makers And Finders , for Stephens was one of the lost writers whom Melville had seen in his childhood and whom I was bent on resurrecting .
His metier was the American tropics , and he had lived all over Latin America and among the primitive tribes on the Amazon river .
Well he knew the sleepless nights , the howling sore-ridden dogs and the biting insects in the villages of the Kofanes and Huitotoes .
He had not yet undertaken the great exploit of his later years , the rediscovery of the ancient Inca highway , the route of Pizarro in Peru , but he had climbed to the original El Dorado , the Andean lake of Guatemala , and he had scaled the southern Sierra Nevada with its Tibetan-like people and looked into the emerald mines of Muzo .
As a naturalist living for two years at the headwaters of the Amazon , he had collected specimens for Mexican museums , and he had taken to the London zoo a live quetzal , the sacred bird of the old Mayans .
Moreover , he had spent six months on the Galapagos islands , among the great turtles that Captain Cook had found there , and now and then he would disappear into some small island of the West Indies .
Victor's book on John Lloyd Stephens was largely written in my study in the house at Weston .
I had had my name taken out of the telephone book , and this was partly because of a convict who had been discharged from Sing Sing and who called me night after night .
He said he was a friend of Heywood Broun who had run a free employment bureau for several months during the depression , but the generous Broun to whom I wrote did not know his name and I somehow conceived the morbid notion that the man in question was prowling round the house .
But one day came the voice of a man I had known when he was a boy , and I later remembered that this boy , thirty years before , had struck me as coming to no good .
There had been something sinister about him that warned me against him , -- I had never felt that way about any other boy , -- but when he uttered his name on the telephone I had forgotten this and I was glad to do what he asked of me .
He was a captain , he said , in the army , and on the train to New York his purse and all his money had been stolen , and would I lend him twenty-five dollars to be given him at the General Delivery window ? ?
Never hearing from him again , I remembered the little boy of whom I had had such doubts when he was ten years old .
We lived for a while in a movie melodrama with a German cook and her son who turned out to be Nazis .
Finally we got them out of the house , after the boy had run away four times looking for other Nazis , threatening to murder village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next Fuhrer .
We found that a charitable society in New York had a long case-history of the two ; ;
To the Weston house came once William Allen Neilson , the president of Smith College who had been one of my old professors and who still called me `` Boy '' when I was sixty .
It reminded me of my other professor , Edward Kennard Rand , of whom I had been so fond when I was at Harvard , the great mediaevalist and classical scholar who had asked me to call him `` Ken '' , saying , `` Age counts for nothing among those who have learned to know life sub specie aeternitatis '' .
I must have written to say how much I had enjoyed his fine book The Building Of Eternal Rome , and I found he had not regretted giving me the highest mark in his old course on the later Latin poets , although in my final examination I had ignored the questions and filled the bluebook with a comparison of Propertius and Coleridge .
He had written to me about a dinner he had had with the Benedictine monks at St. Anselm's Priory in Washington .
There had been reading at table , especially from two books , Pope Gregory The Great's account of St. Scholastica in his Dialogues and my own The World Of Washington Irving .
Some have felt that Washington Irving comes out rather slimly , but let them look at the title of the book '' .
Two or three times , C. C. Burlingham came to lunch with us in Weston , that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred years old and whose birthplace had been my Wall Street suburb .
His reading ranged from Agatha Christie to The Book Of Job and he had an insatiable interest in his fellow-creatures , while his letters were full of gossip about new politicians and old men of letters with whom he had been intimately thrown six decades before .
I never met John Dewey , whose style was a sort of verbal fog and who had written asking me to go to Mexico with him when he was investigating the cause of Trotsky ; ;
but I liked to think of him at ninety swimming and working at Key West long after Hemingway had moved to Cuba .
At Lee Simonson's house , I had dined with Edith Hamilton , the nonogenarian rationalist and the charming scholar who had a great popular success with The Greek Way .
Then there was Mark Howe and there was Henry Dwight Sedgwick , an accomplished man of letters who wrote in the spirit of Montaigne and produced in the end a formidable body of work .
I saw Sedgwick often before his death at ninety-five , -- he had remarried at the age of ninety , -- and he asked me , when once I returned from Rome , if I knew the Cavallinis in the church of St. Cecilia in Trastevere .
Sedgwick had chosen to follow the philosophy of Epicurus whom , with his followers , Dante put in hell ; ;
but he defended the doctrine in The Art Of Happiness , and what indeed could be said against the Epicurean virtues , health , frugality , privacy , culture and friendship ? ?
Of Mark Antony De Wolfe Howe the philosopher Whitehead said the Earth's first visitors to Mars should be persons likely to make a good impression , and when he was asked , `` Whom would you send '' ? ?
He replied , `` My first choice would be Mark Howe '' .
Then I spoke at the ninetieth birthday party of W. E. Burghardt Du Bois , who embarked on a fictional trilogy at eighty-nine and who , with The Crisis , had created a Negro intelligentsia that had never existed in America before him .
Mr. Burlingham , -- `` C.C.B. '' -- wrote to me once about an old friend of mine , S. K. Ratcliffe , whom I had first met in London in 1914 and who also came out for a week-end in Weston .
His wife , Katie , `` as gay as a lark and as lively as a gazelle '' , -- she was then seventy-six , -- had `` a sense of humour that has been denied S.K. , but neither has any aesthetic perceptions .
S.K. was visiting C.C.B. and , not waiting for breakfast , he was off to the University Club , where he spent hours writing obituaries of living Americans for The Manchester Guardian or The Glasgow Herald .
Later , rising ninety , he was beset by publishers for the story of his life and miracles , as he put it , but , calling himself the Needy Knife-grinder , he had spent his time writing short articles and long letters and could not get even a small popular book done .
Then , all but blind , he said there was nothing in Back to Methuselah -- , -- `` G.B.S. ought to have known that '' , -- and `` I look at my bookshelves despairingly , knowing that I can have nothing more to do with them '' .
However , at eighty-five , he had still been busy writing articles , reviewing and speaking , and I had never before known an Englishman who had visited and lectured in three quarters of the United States .
Finally , colleges and clubs took the line that speakers from England were not wanted any longer , even speakers like S.K. , so unlike the novelists and poets who had patronized the Americans for many years .
With their facile generalizations about the United States , these mediocrities , as they often were , had been great successes .
While S.K. did not like Dylan Thomas , I liked his poems very much , but I made the mistake of telling Dylan Thomas so , whereupon he said to me , `` I suppose you think you know all about me '' .
Many years later I went to see S.K. in England , where he was living at Whiteleaf , near Aylesbury , and he showed me beside his cottage there the remains of the road on which Boadicea is supposed to have travelled .
He was convinced that George Orwell's 1984 was nearly all wrong as it applied to England , which was `` driving forward into uncharted waters '' , with the danger of a new tyranny ahead .
He went to the Hotel Mayflower and telegraphed Mencken .
Would he meet him in Baltimore in Drawing Room A , Car Three on the train leaving Washington at nine o'clock next morning ? ?
They would go to New York together , where parties would be piled on weariness and on misery .
Both Alfred Harcourt and Donald Brace had written him enthusiastic praise of Elmer Gantry ( any changes could be made in proof , which was already coming from the printer ) and they had ordered 140,000 copies -- the largest first printing of any book in history .
On New Year's Eve , Alfred Harcourt drove him up the Hudson to Bill Brown's Training Camp , a well-known establishment for the speedy if temporary rehabilitation of drunkards who could no longer help themselves .
But , in departing , Lewis begged Breasted that there be no liquor in the apartment at the Grosvenor on his return , and he took with him the first thirty galleys of Elmer Gantry .
On January 4 , with the boys back at school and college , Mrs. Lewis wrote Harcourt to say that she was `` through , quite through '' .
And she withdrew then to Cromwell Hall , in Cromwell , Connecticut .
Of course I hope Hal can also , but those hopes are much more faint '' .
Charles Breasted remembers that , before unpacking his bag , he telephoned his bootlegger with a generous order , and almost at once `` the familiar procession of people began milling through our living room at any hour between two P.M. and three A.M. '' .
They were strays of every kind -- university students and journalists , Village hangers-on and barflies , taxi drivers and editors and unknown poets , as well as friends like Elinor Wylie and William Rose Benet , the Van Dorens and Nathan , Rebecca West and Hugh Walpole and Osbert Sitwell , Laurence Stallings , Lewis Browne , William Seabrook , Arthur Hopkins , the Woodwards .
He did not neglect his wife in Cromwell Hall , but telephoned her and wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish to `` stand behind '' her in their separation and of his hope that there would be no bitterness between them .
When Breasted insisted that this was impossible for him , Lewis decided to go abroad .
He telephoned L. M. Birkhead and asked him and his wife to come to Europe as his guests , but Birkhead declined on the grounds that one of them must be in the United States when Elmer Gantry was published .
Lewis was spending his mornings , with the help of two secretaries , on the galleys of that long novel , making considerable revisions , and the combination of hard work and hard frivolity exhausted him once more , so that he was compelled to spend three days in the Harbor Sanatorium in the last week of January .
Before he made that retreat , he telephoned Earl Blackman in Kansas City and asked him to come to Europe with him .
Blackman was to be in New York by February 2 , because they were sailing at 12:01 next morning .
Lewis told him what clothes he should bring along , and enjoined him not to buy anything that he did not already own , they would do that in New York .
Blackman arrived a day or two early , and Lewis took him to a department store immediately and outfitted him , luggage and all , and then he took him to a party at the Woodwards that went on until four in the morning .
Woodward took occasion to warn Blackman about Lewis's drinking and urged him to `` try to keep him sober '' .
After a dinner party for which she had come down to New York , Mrs. Lewis and Casanova arrived to see them off , and Elinor Wylie made tart observations that indicated that Lewis had been less discreet than he had promised to be about the real nature of their separation .
Nevertheless , Mrs. Lewis was still solicitous of his condition : let him do as he wished , let him sleep with chambermaids if he must , but , she begged Blackman , try to keep him from drinking a great deal and bring him back in good health .
As they stood at the first-class rail , waving down to his wife and Casanova below , Lewis said , `` Earl , there is Gracie's future husband '' .
Blackman had brought news from Kansas City .
Before his departure , a group of his friends , the Reverend Stidger among them , had given him a luncheon , and Stidger had seen advance sheets of Elmer Gantry .
L. M. Birkhead challenged him to name one and he was silent .
But his rancor did not cease , and presently , on March 13 , when he preached a sermon on the text , `` And Ben-hadad Was Drunk '' , he told his congregation how disappointed he was in Mr. Lewis , how he regretted having had him in his house , and how he should have been warned by the fact that the novelist was drunk all the time that he was working on the book .
In London Lewis took the usual suite in Bury Street .
To the newspapers he talked about his unquiet life , about his wish to be a newspaperman once more , about the prevalence of American slang in British speech , about the loquacity of the English and the impossibility of finding quiet in a railway carriage , about his plans to wander for two years `` unless stopped and made to write another book '' .
The Manchester Guardian wondered how anyone in a railway carriage would have an opportunity to talk to Mr. Lewis , since it was well known that Mr. Lewis always did all of the talking .
The New York Times editorialist wondered just who would stop Mr. Lewis and make him write a book .
Lewis's remarks about his marriage were suggestive enough to induce American reporters to invade the offices of Harcourt , Brace & Company for information , to pursue Mrs. Lewis to Cromwell Hall , and , after she had returned to New York , to ferret her out at the Stanhope on upper Fifth Avenue where she had taken an apartment .
There , to the Evening Post , she emphatically denied the divorce rumors and explained that she had stayed behind because of the schooling of their son , which henceforth would be strictly American .
One had it that a friend , protesting her snobbery , said , `` But , Gracie , you are an American , aren't you '' ? ?
And she replied , `` I was born in America , but I was conceived in Vienna '' .
He is said to have reported that once , when she went to a hospital to call on a friend after a serious operation , and the friend protested that it had been `` nothing '' , she replied , `` Well , it was your healthy American peasant blood that pulled you through '' .
With these and similar tales he was entertaining his English friends , all of whom he was seeing when he was not showing Blackman the sights of London and its environs .
At once upon his arrival , he telephoned Lady Sybil Colefax who invited them to tea , and then Lewis decided to give a party as a quick way of rounding up his friends .
He invited Lady Sybil , Lord Thomson , Bechhofer Roberts , and a half dozen others .
When Blackman emerged from the bedroom , everyone was gone except the tolerant Lord Thomson , who stayed and chatted with him for half an hour , and then Blackman lay awake most of that night , despairing of what he must expect on the Continent .
Lewis warned him never to lay a hand on him , and then Blackman asked for his fare back to the United States .
`` And from now on , for the rest of this trip , I will only drink what you agree that I should drink '' .
Blackman called the porter and had him remove everything but one bottle of brandy , and after that they would have a cocktail or two before dinner , or , on one of their walking trips , beer , or , in France and Italy , wine in moderation .
Lewis gave him a guidebook tour of London and , motoring and walking , took him to Stratford , but the London stay was for only ten days , and on the twentieth they took the train for Southampton , where they spent the night for an early morning Channel crossing .
Near Southampton , in a considerable establishment , lived Homer Vachell , a well-known pulp writer , and his brother , Horace -- both friends of Lewis's .
It was late , and Blackman was ready to go to sleep , but Lewis was not .
He said , `` We had a good time tonight , didn't we , Earl '' ? ?
As the total number of incepting bachelors in 1629 was , according to Masson ( Life , 1:218 ) and n , two hundred fifty-nine , the twenty-four names listed in the ordo senioritatis for that year constitute slightly less than one tenth of the total number of bachelors who then incepted .
There were four from St. John's and four from Christ's , three from Pembroke , and two from each of the colleges , Jesus , Peterhouse , Queens' , and Trinity , with Caius , Clare , King's , Magdalene , and Sidney supplying one each in the ordo senioritatis .
The list was headed by ( Henry ) Hutton of St. John's who was matriculated from St. John's at Easter , 1625 .
He became a fellow of Jesus in 1629 , proceeded M.A. from Jesus in 1632 , and was proctor in 1639-40 .
The second name was ( Edward ) Kempe , matriculated from Queens' College at Easter , 1625 .
He was ordained deacon 16 June and priest 22 December 1633 .
The third name was ( John ) Ravencroft , who was admitted to the Inner Temple in November 1631 .
The fourth name was ( John ) Milton of Christ's College , followed by ( Richard ) Manningham of Peterhouse , who matriculated 16 October 1624 .
( John ) Boutflower of Christ's was twelfth in the list , coming from Perse School under Mr. Lovering as pensioner 20 April 1625 under Mr. Alsop .
The fourteenth name was ( Richard ) Buckenham , written Buckman , admitted to Christ's College under Scott 2 July 1625 .
The fifteenth name was ( Thomas ) Baldwin , admitted to Christ's 4 March 1625 under Alsop .
Christ's College was well represented that year in the ordo , and the name highest on the list from that college was Milton's , fourth in the entire university .
Small wonder that Milton later boasted of how well his work had been received there , since he attained a rank in the order of commencing bachelors higher than that of any other inceptor from Christ's of that year .
The process usually began with a tutor boasting about a boy , as Chappell had boasted about Lightfoot , to the higher officers of the college and university .
Milton was required to absorb and display an intensive and accurate knowledge of Latin grammar , logic-rhetoric , ethics , physics or natural philosophy , metaphysics , and Latin , Greek , and Hebrew .
He had also sampled various special fields of learning , being unable to miss some study of divinity , Justinian ( law ) , and Galen ( medicine ) .
He had learned to dispute devastatingly , both formally and informally in Latin , and according to the rules on any topic , pro or con , drawn from almost any subject , more especially from Aristotle's works .
Then we have surviving at least one instance of a poem prepared for another , in Naturam non Pati Senium , and perhaps also the De Idea Platonica .
Venn and others have dealt with sports and pastimes at Cambridge in Milton's day with not very specific results .
The tiny hamlet of Chesterton to the north , with the fens and marshes lying on down the Ouse River , may have attracted him often , as it did many other youths of the time .
The Gog Magog Hills to the southeast afforded him and all other students a vantage point from which to view the town and university of their dwelling .
What manner of person does Milton appear to have been when as an undergraduate he resided at Christ's College ? ?
In short , the traditional epithet for Milton of ' Lady of Christ's ' , while eminently fitting , rests only on this baffling passage in the midst of the most treacherous piece of writing Milton left us .
Aubrey's mention of it ( 2:67 , and Bodleian MS Aubr. 8 , F. 63 ) comes from this prolusion , through Christopher Milton or Edward Phillips .
The entire exercise , Latin and English , is most suggestive of the kind of person Milton had become at Christ's during his undergraduate career ; ;
Milton was to act as the archfool , the supreme wit , the lightly bantering pater , Pater Liber , who could at once trip lightly over that which deserved such treatment , or could at will annihilate the common enemies of the college gathering , and with words alone .
But these prolusions that we have surviving from the Christ's College days are only one phase of his existence then .
Perhaps his most important private activity was the combination of reading , discussion with a few -- if we can trust his writings to Diodati and the younger Gill , very few -- congenial companions .
Lines 23-36 of Lycidas later point to a friendship with Edward King , who entered Christ's College 9 June 1626 .
On the other hand , the bright vision of the future has been directly stated in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies -- science fiction , of course , is related , if sometimes distantly , to that utopian literature optimistic about science , literature whose period of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries produced Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward and H. G. Wells's A Modern Utopia .
In Arthur Clarke's Childhood's End ( 1953 ) , though written after the present flood of dystopias began , we can see the bright vision of science fiction clearly defined .
Childhood's End -- apparently indebted to Kurd Lasswitz's Utopian romance , Auf Zwei Planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to Wells's Histories Of The Future , especially , The World Set Free ( 1914 ) and The Shape Of Things To Come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe .
Thus science is the savior of mankind , and in this respect Childhood's End only blueprints in greater detail the vision of the future which , though not always so directly stated , has nevertheless been present in the minds of most science-fiction writers .
Considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the Childhood's End kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition .
Among the dystopias , for example , Isaac Asimov's The Caves Of Steel ( 1954 ) portrays the deadly effects on human life of the super-city of the future ; ;
James Blish's A Case Of Conscience ( 1958 ) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction in underground shelters ; ;
Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 ( 1954 ) presents a book-burning society in which wall television and hearing-aid radios enslave men's minds ; ;
Walter M. Miller , Jr.'s , A Canticle For Leibowitz ( 1959 ) finds men , after the great atomic disaster , stumbling back to their previous level of civilization and another catastrophe ; ;
Frederick Pohl's `` The Midas Touch '' ( 1954 ) predicts an economy of abundance which , in order to remain prosperous , must set its robots to consuming surplus production ; ;
Clifford D. Simak's `` How-2 '' ( 1954 ) tells of a future when robots have taken over , leaving men nothing to do ; ;
and Robert Sheckley's The Status Civilization ( 1960 ) describes a world which , frightened by the powers of destruction science has given it , becomes static and conformist .
A more complete list would also include Bradbury's `` The Pedestrian '' ( 1951 ) , Philip K. Dick's Solar Lottery ( 1955 ) , David Karp's One ( 1953 ) , Wilson Tucker's The Long Loud Silence ( 1952 ) , Jack Vance's To Live Forever ( 1956 ) , Gore Vidal's Messiah ( 1954 ) , and Bernard Wolfe's Limbo ( 1952 ) , as well as the three perhaps most outstanding dystopias , Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth's The Space Merchants ( 1953 ) , Kurt Vonnegut's Player Piano ( 1952 ) , and John Wyndham's Re-Birth ( 1953 ) , works which we will later examine in detail .
The novels and stories like Pohl's Drunkard's Walk ( 1960 ) , with the focus on adventure and with the dystopian elements only a dim background -- in this case an uneasy , overpopulated world in which the mass of people do uninteresting routine jobs while a carefully selected , university-trained elite runs everything -- are in all likelihood as numerous as dystopias .
There is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and Swift's Gulliver's Travels to the twentieth century and Zamiatin's We , Capek's War With The Newts , Huxley's Brave New World , E. M. Forster's `` The Machine Stops '' , C. S. Lewis's That Hideous Strength , and Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as Wells's trilogy , The Time Machine , `` A Story Of The Days To Come '' , and When The Sleeper Wakes , and as recently as Jack Williamson's `` With Folded Hands '' ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots .
Since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the last twelve years , it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief impetus was the 1949 publication of Nineteen Eighty-Four , an assumption which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as Room 101 , along with education by conditioning from Brave New World , a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned with new interest after reading the more powerful Orwell dystopia .
Not all recent science fiction , however , is dystopian , for the optimistic strain is still very much alive in Mission Of Gravity and Childhood's End , as we have seen , as well as in many other recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle's The Black Cloud ( 1957 ) ; ;
How effectively these warnings can be presented is seen in Pohl and Kornbluth's The Space Merchants , Vonnegut's Player Piano and Wyndham's Re-Birth .
Easily the best known of these three novels is The Space Merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put .
While The Space Merchants indicates , as Kingsley Amis has correctly observed , some of the `` impending consequences of the growth of industrial and commercial power '' and satirizes `` existing habits in the advertising profession '' , its warning and analysis penetrate much deeper .
Rather what Kornbluth and Pohl are really doing is warning against the dangers inherent in perfecting `` a science of man and his motives '' .
The Space Merchants , like such humanist documents as Joseph Wood Krutch's The Measure Of Man and C. S. Lewis's The Abolition Of Man , considers what may result from the scientific study of human nature .
And this , of course , is exactly what Madison Avenue has been accused of doing albeit in a primitive way , with its `` hidden persuaders '' and what the space merchants accomplish with much greater sophistication and precision .
Pohl and Kornbluth's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with `` every basic trauma and neurosis in American life '' , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the `` great prime motivations of the human spirit '' .
As the hero , Mitchell Courtenay , explains before his conversion , the job of advertising is `` to convince people without letting them know that they're being convinced '' .
As Courtenay explains , `` Here in this profession we reach into the souls of men and women .
If it proclaims that the best is yet to be , it always arouses , at least in the young , either a suspicious question or perhaps the exclamation of the Negro youth who saw on a tombstone the inscription , `` I am not dead but sleeping '' .
Those famous lines of the Greek Anthology with which a fading beauty dedicates her mirror at the shrine of a goddess reveal a wise attitude : `` Venus , take my votive glass , Since I am not what I was , What from this day I shall be , Venus , let me never see '' .
At least I should like them to know that I know these discounts are being made .
but I am so aware of an uninterrupted continuity of the persona or ego that I see only as absurd the tendency of some psychologists from Heraclitus to Pirandello and Proust to regard consciousness as no more than a flux amid which nothing remains unchanged .
That fact is very clearly illustrated in the case of the many present-day intellectuals who were Communists or near-Communists in their youth and are now so extremely conservative ( or reactionary , as many would say ) that they can define no important political conviction that does not seem so far from even a centrist position as to make the distinction between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Khrushchev for them hardly worth noting .
To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and I have reason to know that there are some such ) , I would like to say what I have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
But I will also remind them that I have always been inclined to skepticism , to a kind of Laodicean lack of commitment so far as public affairs are concerned ; ;
At about the age of twelve I became a Spencerian liberal , and I have always considered myself a liberal of some kind even though the definition has changed repeatedly since Spencer became a reactionary .
Several times in my youth I voted the Socialist ticket , but less because I was Socialist than because I was not either a Republican or a Democrat , and I voted for Franklin Roosevelt every time he was a candidate .
Yet during the years when I was on the staff of The Nation , I tried to the limit the patience of the editors on almost every occasion when I was permitted to write an editorial having a bearing on a political or social question .
Never once during the trying thirties did I come so close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant Russian communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums `` an interesting experiment '' .
Many of my friends at the time thought that I had received a well-deserved condemnation when Lincoln Steffens denounced me in a review of one of my books as a perfect example of the obsolete man who could understand and sympathize only with the dead past .
But he , as I can now retort , was the man who could see so short a distance ahead that after a visit to Russia he gave voice to the famous exclamation : `` I have seen the future and it works '' .
Once many years ago I sat at dinner next to Arthur Train , and the subject of The Nation came up .
When I first came across Samuel Johnson's pronouncement , `` the remedy for the ills of life is palliative rather than radical '' , it seemed to me to sum up the profoundest of political and social truths .
The reason is , I think , my awareness that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets us nowhere , and that I am simply too old to hope .
I would , however , like to suggest that , wrong though I may be , the tendency to see dilemmas rather than solutions is one of which I have been a victim ever since I can remember , and therefore not merely a senile phenomenon .
Apropos of what some would call cynicism , I remember an anecdote the source of which I forget .
Without really changing the general subject , I take this opportunity to confess that I am troubled by doubts , not only about pacifism , but also when asked to join in the protest against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous ; ;
In fact I cannot imagine myself condemning a man to the noose or the electric chair if I had to take , as an individual , the responsibility for his death .
Just as I know I would make a bad soldier even though I cannot sincerely call myself a pacifist , so too I would not be either a hangman by profession or , if I could avoid it , even a member of a hanging jury .
For here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species Man , or , as Malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' .
Andre Malraux's The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg was written in the early years of the second World War , during a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the Germans after the fall of France .
The work as it stands is not the entire book that Malraux wrote at that time -- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called La Lutte avec l'Ange ; ;
If we are to believe the list of titles printed in Malraux's latest book , La Metamorphose Des Dieux , Vol. 1 ( ( 1957 ) , he is still engaged in writing a large novel under his original title .
But as he remarks in his preface to The Walnut Trees , `` a novel can hardly ever be rewritten '' , and `` when this one appears in its final form , the form of the first part will no doubt be radically changed '' .
The theme of The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is most closely related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux's array of novels : Man's Hope ( 1937 ) .
This magnificent but greatly underestimated book , which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time as no other comparable creation , has suffered severely from having been written about an historical event -- the Spanish Civil War -- that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political feuds .
Even so apparently impartial a critic as W. H. Frohock has taken for granted that the book was originally intended as a piece of Loyalist propaganda ; ;
The whole purpose of Man's Hope is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and ends inherent in all organized political violence -- and even when such violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty , justice and human dignity .
Nowhere before in Malraux's pages have we met such impassioned defenders of a `` quality of man '' which transcends the realm of politics and even the realm of action altogether -- both the action of Malraux's early anarchist-adventurers like Perken and Garine , and the self-sacrificing action of dedicated Communists like Kyo Gisors and Katow in Man's Fate .
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg includes not one war but two , and throws in a Turkish revolution along with some guerrilla fighting in the desert for good measure .
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is composed in the form of a triptych , with the two small side panels framing and enclosing the main central episode of the novel .
This central episode consists of a series of staccato scenes set in the period from the beginning of the present century up to the first World War .
The framing scenes , on the other hand , both take place in the late Spring of 1940 , just at the moment of the defeat of France in the second great world conflict .
The narrator is an Alsatian serving with the French Army , and he has the same name ( Berger ) that Malraux himself was later to use in the Resistance ; ;
Much more important is to grasp the feelings of the narrator ( whose full name is never given ) as he becomes aware of the disorganized and bewildered mass of French prisoners clustered together in a temporary prison camp in and around the cathedral of Chartres .
And by a skillful and unobtrusive use of imagery ( the enclosure is called a `` Roman-camp stockade '' , the hastily erected lean-to is a `` Babylonian hovel '' , the men begin to look like `` Peruvian mummies '' and to acquire `` Gothic faces '' ) , Malraux projects a fresco of human endurance -- which is also the endurance of the human -- stretching backward into the dark abyss of time .
`` I thought I knew more than my education had taught me , '' notes the narrator , `` because I had encountered the militant mobs of a political or religious faith '' .
and the narrator recalls the words of his father , Vincent Berger : `` It is not by any amount of scratching at the individual that one finally comes down to mankind '' .
The entire middle section of The Walnut Trees is taken up with the life of Vincent Berger himself , whose fragmentary notes on his `` encounters with mankind '' are now conveyed by his son .
For the figure of Vincent Berger Malraux has obviously drawn on his studies of T. E. Lawrence ( though Berger fights on the side of the Turks instead of against them ) , and like both Lawrence and Malraux himself he is a fervent admirer of Nietzsche .
A professor at the University of Constantinople , where his first course of lectures was on Nietzsche and the `` philosophy of action '' , Vincent Berger becomes head of the propaganda department of the German Embassy in Turkey .
As an Alsatian before the first World War he was of course of German nationality ; ;
And , after becoming the right-hand man of Enver Pasha , he is sent by the latter to pave the way for a new Turkish Empire embracing `` the union of all Turks throughout Central Asia from Adrianople to the Chinese oases on the Silk Trade Route '' .
Vincent Berger's mission is a failure because the Ottoman nationalism on which Enver Pasha counted does not exist .
and amid a dusty desolation in which nothing human any longer seemed to survive , Vincent Berger begins to dream of the Occident .
'' Finally , after almost being beaten to death by a madman -- he could not fight back because madmen are sacred to Islam -- he throws up his mission and returns to Europe .
Despite Berger's report , Enver Pasha refuses to surrender his dream of a Turkish Blood Alliance ; ;
And when Vincent Berger returns to Europe , this first result of his encounters with mankind is considerably enriched and deepened by a crucial revelation .
One such event is the landing in Europe itself , when the mingled familiarity and strangeness of the Occident , after the blank immensities of Asia , shocks the returning traveller into a realization of the infinite possibilities of human life .
In a pessimistic assessment of the cold war , Eden declared : `` There must be much closer unity within the West before there can be effective negotiation with the East '' .
Ordinary methods of diplomacy within the free world are inadequate , said the former Prime Minister .
Citing the experience of the Combined Chiefs of Staff in World War 2 , , Eden said that all would have been confusion and disarray without them .
Citing the advances of Communist power in recent years , Sir Anthony observed : `` This very grave state of affairs will continue until the free nations accept together the reality of the danger that confronts them and unite their policies and resources to meet it '' .
While I fully agree with Sir Anthony's contention , I think that we must carry the analysis farther , bearing in mind that while common peril may be the measure of our need , the existence or absence of a positive sense of community must be the measure of our capacity .
While it is hazardous to project the trend of history , it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully emerging in the Western world , particularly among the countries of Western Europe .
At the end of World War 2 , , free Europe was ready for a new beginning .
It may well be that the unification of Europe will prove inadequate , that the survival of free society will require nothing less than the confederation of the entire Western world .
The movement toward European unity has been expressed in two currents : federalism and functionalism , one looking to the constitution of a United States of Europe , the other building on wartime precedents of practical cooperation for the solution of specific problems .
In 1946 Sir Winston Churchill , who had spoken often of European union during the war , advocated the formation of `` a kind of United States of Europe '' .
Had Churchill been returned to office in 1945 , it is just possible that Britain , instead of standing fearfully aloof , would have led Europe toward union .
In 1947 and 1948 the necessity of massive coordinated efforts to achieve economic recovery led to the formation of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation to supervise and coordinate the uses of American aid under the Marshall Plan .
The United States might well have exploited the opportunity provided by the European Recovery Program to push the hesitant European nations toward political federation as well as economic cooperation , but all proposals to this effect were rejected by the United States Government at the time .
Another powerful factor in the European movement was the threat of Soviet aggression .
The Communist coup in Czechoslovakia in 1948 was followed immediately by the conclusion of the Brussels Treaty , a 50-year alliance among Britain , France and the Benelux countries .
And of course the Soviet threat was responsible for NATO , the grand alliance of the Atlantic nations .
In 1949 the Council of Europe came into existence , a purely consultative parliamentary body but the first organ of political rather than functional unity .
In 1952 , the European Coal and Steel Community was launched , placing the coal and steel production of France , West Germany , Italy and Benelux under a supranational High Authority .
For a time it appeared that a common European army might be created , but the project for a European Defense Community was rejected by the French National Assembly in 1954 .
In 1957 the social-economic approach to European integration was capped by the formation among `` the Six '' of a tariff-free European Common Market , and Euratom for cooperation in the development of atomic energy .
The `` overseas '' democracies have generally encouraged the European unification movement without seriously considering the wisdom of their own full participation in a broader Atlantic community .
The United States and Canada belong only to NATO and the new O.E.C.D. .
Now Britain has decided to seek admission to the European Economic Community and it seems certain that she will be joined by some of her partners in the loose Free Trade Area of the `` Outer Seven '' .
Besides its historical significance as a break with the centuries-old tradition of British insularity , Britain's move , if successful , will constitute an historic landmark of the first importance in the movement toward the unification of Europe and the Western world .
If a broader Atlantic community is to be formed -- and my own judgment is that it lies within the realm of both our needs and our capacity -- a ready nucleus of machinery is at hand in the NATO alliance .
What is required is the full implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty , which provides : `` The Parties will contribute toward the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations by strengthening their free institutions , by bringing about a better understanding of the principles upon which these institutions are founded , and by promoting conditions of stability and well-being .
As Lester Pearson wrote in 1955 : :
The NATO Council is available as an executive agency , the Standing Group as a high military authority .
The unofficial Conference of Parliamentarians is available as a potential legislative authority .
An equally promising avenue toward Atlantic community may lie through the development and expansion of the O.E.C.D. .
Indeed it might be a more appropriate vehicle than NATO for the development of a parliamentary organ of the Atlantic nations , because it could encompass all of the members of the Atlantic community including those , like Sweden and Switzerland , who are unwilling to be associated with an essentially military alliance like Aj .
Underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a conviction that the nations of the North Atlantic area do indeed form a community , at least a potential community .
For centuries the North Atlantic nations dominated the world and as long as they did they could afford the luxury of fighting each other .
That time is now past and the Atlantic nations , if they are to survive , must develop a full-fledged community , and they must also look beyond the frontiers of `` Western civilization '' toward a world-wide `` concert of free nations '' .
It is for these reasons that proposals for a `` new world order '' , through radical overhaul of the United Nations or through some sort of world federation , are utterly fatuous .
In a recent book called `` World Peace Through World Law '' , two distinguished lawyers , Grenville Clark and Louis Sohn , call for just such an overhaul of the U.N. , basing their case on the world-wide fear of a nuclear holocaust .
New machinery of coordination should not be our primary objective in the foreseeable future -- though perhaps the `` political general staff '' of Western leaders proposed by Sir Anthony Eden would serve a useful purpose .
Generally , however , there is an abundance of available machinery of coordination -- in NATO , in O.E.C.D. , in the U.N. and elsewhere .
A `` concert of free nations '' should take its inspiration from the traditions of the nineteenth century Concert of Europe with its common values and accepted `` rules of the game '' .
the history of both the League of Nations and the United Nations demonstrates that .
A realistic `` concert of free nations '' might be expected to consist of an `` inner community '' of the North Atlantic nations and an `` outer community '' embracing much or all of the non-Communist world .
The recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement seen by some as part of the `` San Francisco Renaissance '' have been as popular as they are notorious .
`` It might well start a craze like swallowing goldfish or pee-wee golf '' , wrote Kenneth Rexroth in an explanatory note in the Evergreen Review , and he may have been right .
Lawrence Ferlenghetti and Bruce Lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical forms of jazz , and the vocabulary of the musician .
But the best known exploiters of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen .
In San Francisco he has worked with Brew Moore , Charlie Mingus , and other `` swinging '' musicians of secure reputation , thus placing himself within established jazz traditions , in addition to being a part of the San Francisco `` School '' .
Although Patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the Chamber Jazz Sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics .
( Downbeat did not mention the Los Angeles appearance of Patchen and the Sextet , although the engagement lasted over two months .
Patchen's musicians are outsiders in established jazz circles , and Patchen himself has remained outside the San Francisco poetry group , maintaining a self-imposed isolation , even though his conversion to poetry-and-jazz is not as extreme or as sudden as it may first appear .
His first book , Before The Brave ( 1936 ) , is a collection of poems that are almost all Communistic , but after publication of this book he rejected Communism , and advocated a pacifistic anarchy , though retaining his revolutionary idiom .
This salvation does not take the form of a Christian Heaven .
In Patchen's eyes , organized churches are as odious as organized governments , and Christian symbols , having been taken over by the moneyed classes , are now agents of corruption .
Patchen envisions a Dark Kingdom which `` stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger from his own kind '' .
The Dark Kingdom sends Angels of Death and other fateful messengers down to us with stern tenderness .
Actually Heaven and the Dark Kingdom overlap ; ;
Beginning in Cloth Of The Tempest ( 1943 ) he experimented in merging poetry and visual art , using drawings to carry long narrative segments of a story , as in Sleepers Awake , and constructing elaborate `` poems-in-drawing-and-type '' in which it is impossible to distinguish between the `` art '' and the poetry .
The private detective must rely , as the Youngest Son or Trickster Hero does in primitive myth , on his wits .
In 1945 , probably almost every American not only knew who Sam Spade was , but had some kind of emotional feeling about him .
In The Memoirs Of A Shy Pornographer ( 1945 ) Patchen exploited this national sentiment by making his hero , Albert Budd , a private detective .
But since 1945 , Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ;
The revolution in jazz that took place around 1949 , the evolution from the `` bebop '' school of Dizzy Gillespie to the `` cool '' sound of Miles Davis and Lennie Tristano , Lee Konitz , and the whole legend of Charlie Parker , had made an impression on many academic and literary men .
The differentiation between the East Coast and West Coast schools of jazz , the differences between the `` hard bop '' school of Rollins , and the `` cerebral '' experiments of Tristano , Konitz and Marsh , the general differences in the mores of white and Negro musicians , all had become fairly well known to certain segments of the public .
In this respect , his approach to poetry-and-jazz is in marked contrast to Kenneth Rexroth's .
Rexroth uses many of his early poems when he reads to jazz , including many of his Chinese and Japanese translations ; ;
he usually draws some kind of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading -- for instance , he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an Oriental courtesan waiting for the man she loves , and who never comes , and the old blues chants of Ma Rainy and other Negro singers -- but usually the comparison is specious .
Everyone knows that private detectives in real life are not like Sam Spade and Pat Novak , but the real and the imaginary musician are closely linked .
Henry Miller characterized Patchen as a `` man of anger and light '' .
The following passage from `` The Hangman's Great Hands '' illustrates the directness of this anger .
Angry because I was that very one somebody was supposed To be fighting for '' .
In his recent book , Hurray For Anything ( 1957 ) , one of the most important short poems -- and it is the title poem for one of the long jazz arrangements -- is written for recital with jazz .
`` I went to the city And there I did Weep , Men a-crowing like asses , And living like sheep .
Yes , I went to the city , And there I did bitterly cry , Men out of touch with the earth , And with never a glance at the sky .
Perhaps Patchen was once involved in a train accident , and this passage from First Will And Testament may have been how the accident appeared to the poet when he first saw it -- if he did : ``
He is New York-born and Jewish .
He spent one year at the University of North Carolina because Thomas Wolfe went there .
He returned to New York to work for The New Yorker , to edit a Western pulp , to `` duck the war in the OWI '' , to write publicity for Paramount Pictures and commentary for a newsreel , then he began his career as critic for various magazines .
Now he has abandoned all that to be A Writer .
But I've got news for Krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
His may typify a certain kind of postwar New York experience , but his experience is certainly not typical of his `` generation's '' .
In any case , who ever thought that New York is typical of anything ? ?
And they traveled out of New York .
Only a native New Yorker could believe that New York is now or ever was a literary center .
Krim's typicality consists only in his New Yorker's view that New York is the world ; ;
The New York mind is two parts abstraction and one part misinformation about the rest of the country and in fact the world .
In his fulminating against the literary world , Krim is really struggling with the New Yorker in himself , but it's a losing battle .
Closely related to his illusions about his typicality is Krim's complicated feeling about his Jewishness .
He writes , `` Most of my friends and I were Jewish ; ;
their reading and thinking gave an extension to their normal blushes about appearing ' Jewish ' in subway , bus , racetrack , movie house , any of the public places that used to make the Jew of my generation self-conscious ( heavy thinkers walking across Seventh Avenue without their glasses on , willing to dare the trucks as long as they didn't look like the ikey-kikey caricature of the Yiddish intellectual ) .
'' At other points in his narrative , Krim associates Jewishness with unappeasable literary ambition , with abstraction , with his personal turning aside from the good , the true , and the beautiful of fiction in the manner of James T. Farrell to the international , the false , and the inflated .
The only possible answer to that is , I am a suffering Franco-Irishman .
Had Krim gone farther from New York than Chapel Hill , he might have discovered that large numbers of American Jews do not find his New York version of the Jews' lot remotely recognizable .
Finally , there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest American fiction is being written by Jews , but it is not Jewish fiction ; ;
Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud , through intellectual toughness , perception , through experience in fact , have obviously liberated themselves from any sentimental Krim self-indulgence they might have been tempted to .
And again , `` how can you write when you haven't yet read ' Bartleby The Scrivener ' '' ? ?
He moved in a `` highly intellectual '' group in Greenwich Village in the late forties , becoming `` internationalized '' overnight .
Then followed a period in which he wrote reviews for The New York Times Book Review , The Commonweal , Commentary , had a small piece in Partisan Review , and moved on to Hudson , The Village Voice , and Exodus .
The work for Commonweal was more satisfying than work for Commentary `` because of the staff's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo '' .
Commentary was a mere suburb of Partisan Review , the arch-enemy .
Both magazines were `` rigid with reactionary what-will-T. S. Eliot-or-Martin Buber-think ? ?
'' Partisan has failed , Krim says , for being `` snob-clannish , overcerebral , Europeanish , aristocratically alienated '' from the U.S. .
'' Kenyon , Sewanee , and Hudson operated in an `` Anglo-Protestant New Critical chill '' ; ;
Qui s'excuse s'accuse , as the French Jewish intellectuals used to say .
Through all this raving , Krim is performing a traditional and by now boring rite , the attack on intelligence , upon the largely successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn .
Sociological jargon , Germano-Slavic approximations to English , third-rate but modish fiction , and outrages to common sense have often disfigured Partisan , and in lesser degree , the other magazines on the list .
What Krim ignores , in his contempt for history and for accuracy , is that these magazines , Partisan foremost , brought about a genuine revolution in the American mind from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950 .
The process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the First War and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks .
Without the good magazines , without their book reviews , their hospitality to European writers , without above all their awareness of literary standards , we might very well have had a generation of Krim's heroes -- Wolfes , Farrells , Dreisers , and I might add , Sandburgs and Frosts and MacLeishes in verse -- and then where would we be ? ?
When Partisan and Kenyon set up shop , Mencken was still accepted as an arbiter of taste ( remember Hergesheimer ? ?
) , George Jean Nathan and Alexander Woollcott were honored in odd quarters , and the whole Booth Tarkington , Willa Catheter ( sic ) , ) Pearl , Buck , , Amy Lowell , William Lyon Phelps atmosphere lay thick as Los Angeles smog
If , the editors sometimes , dozed and printed pretentious , New , York-mind , dross , they , also printed , Malraux , , Silone , , Chiaromonte , , Gide , Bellow , , Robert Lowell , Francis Fergusson , Mary McCarthy , Delmore Schwartz , Mailer , Elizabeth Hardwick , Eleanor Clark , , and a host of , other good writers .
Only '' a New York hick would expect to find the literary life in Greenwich Village , at any point , later than Walt Whitman's day .
The highly intellectual minds that Krim says he encountered , in the Village did their work in spite of , , not because of , any Village atmosphere .
But Krim's complaint is important because not only in New York , but in other cities and in universities throughout this country , young and not , so young men at
For the sad truth is that while one might write well without having read Bartleby The Scrivener , one is more likely , to write well if one has `` read it , and much else .
My `` touchstones , had , been strictly '' literature and , humanly enough , American literature ( because that was what I wanted to write ) .
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo .
An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of Quirinal Palace , the first time since the war .
At least they hadn't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated , flat , dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini's home district -- Dogumenti , per favore .
We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead .
Berto's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war .
On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of The Count Of Monte Cristo .
On his bookshelves were some of the latest American novels , including Bellow's Seize The Day , but he hadn't read them ( they were sent by American publishers ) and wasn't especially interested in what the American writers were up to .
He was interested in Robert Musil's The Man Without Qualities .
He was interested in Italo Svevo .
It was going to be hard going all the way because he hadn't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in The Sky Is Red .
He was going to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all , leave Rome and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life , go back to Calabria .
He knew all about it and had put it down in journal form in The War In A Black Shirt , a wonderful book not , for some strange reason , published in the U.S. .
He had put it down in a war novel , The Day Of The Lion .
The English lady said she had to go to Vienna for a while .
It was a pity because she had planned to lay a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue , towering over Rome in spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo .
Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili .
When they lost it , the French artillery moved in , and that was the end for Garibaldi that time , on 30 April 1849 .
Our companion was a huge , plain-spoken American sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944 .
The sculptor looked at him , let the color drain out of his face , grinned , and looked down into his drink , a bad Martini made with raw Italian gin .
The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged up and along .
The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April .
There were a few reasons for that , too : Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists nowadays .
( It is sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln for the same reason .
There was a new Pope and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days .
As it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion .
Nothing was going to be done this year to celebrate Garibaldi's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome .
Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi .
She also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of Lauro Di Bosis .
It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis .
He flew over Rome one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over the city , denouncing the Fascists .
Gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of Rome ) that a famous American dancer of the time had paid for both the planes .
It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro Di Bosis after the war .
Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend .
I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria .
No airplanes , no Nathan Hale statements .
I understand very well about Lauro Di Bosis and how his action is symbolic .
The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it .
Like every Southerner I can't escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats , forlorn lost causes .
Though Garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett's Charge -- which , like all Southerners , I view in almost Miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc. -- I associated the two .
And to top it all I am often sentimental on purpose , trying to prove to myself that I am not afraid of sentiment .
Maybe I could call Rimanelli at the magazine Rottosei where he worked .
The Office of Business Economics ( OBE ) of the U.S. Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook .
For further information contact Director , Office of Business Economics , U.S. Department of Commerce , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Economic information is made available to businessmen and economists promptly through the monthly Survey Of Current Business and its weekly supplement .
This periodical , including weekly statistical supplements , is available for $4 per year from Commerce Field Offices or Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
The Small Business Administration ( SBA ) provides guidance and advice on sources of technical information relating to small business management and research and development of products .
SBA offers Administrative Management Courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how '' of small business concerns within a community .
Through the SBA's Management Counseling Program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community .
One-day conferences covering some specific phase of business management , also part of the continuing activities of the Small Business Administration , aid community economic development programs .
These short , `` streamlined '' meetings usually are sponsored by local banks , Chambers of Commerce , trade associations , or other civic organizations .
These problems frequently arise where a firm is making items for the Government not directly along the lines of its normal civilian business or where the Government specifications require operations that the firm did not understand when it undertook the contract .
The property sales assistance program is designed to assist small business concerns that may wish to buy property offered for sale by the Federal Government .
Under this program , property sales specialists in the Small Business Administration regional offices help small business concerns to locate Federal property for sale and insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources , including timber from the national forests .
SBA works closely with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be interested in purchasing .
Section 8-b-2 of the Small Business Act , as amended , authorizes the SBA to make a complete inventory of the productive facilities of small business concerns .
Purpose of this inventory is to include all eligible productive facilities in SBA's facilities register so that the small business concerns may have an opportunity to avail themselves of the services authorized by the Congress in establishing the Small Business Administration .
For further information , contact Small Business Administration Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does , SBA Services For Community Economic Development , and various other useful publications on currently important management , technical production , and marketing topics are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. .
New Product Introduction For Small Business Owners , 30 cents ; ;
Developing And Selling New Products , 45 cents ; ;
U.S. Government Purchasing , Specifications , And Sales Directory , 60 cents , are available from the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
For further information , contact SBA Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does ; ;
SBA Business Loans ; ;
and Small Business Pooling are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. , and its regional offices .
The Farm Credit Administration , an independent agency located within the Department of Agriculture , supervises and coordinates a cooperative credit system for agriculture .
The system is composed of three credit services , Federal Land Banks and National Farm Loan Associations , Federal Intermediate ( short-term ) Credit Banks , and Banks for Cooperatives .
The third credit service , Banks for Cooperatives , exists under authority of the Farm Credit Act of 1933 .
The Banks for Cooperatives were established to provide a permanent source of credit on a sound basis for farmers' cooperatives .
Three distinct classes of loans are made available to farmers' cooperatives by the Banks for Cooperatives : Commodity loans , operating capital loans , and facility loans .
To be eligible to borrow from a Bank for Cooperatives , a cooperative must be an association in which farmers act together in processing and marketing farm products , purchasing farm supplies , or furnishing farm business services , and must meet the requirements set forth in the Farm Credit Act of 1933 , as amended .
Interest rates are determined by the board of directors of the bank with the approval of the Farm Credit Administration .
For further information , contact the Bank for Cooperatives serving the region , or the Farm Credit Administration , Research and Information Division , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Available , on request , from U.S. Department of Agriculture , Washington 25 , D.C. , are : Cooperative Farm Credit Can Assist In Rural Development ( Circular No. 44 ) , and The Cooperative Farm Credit System ( Circular No. 36-A ) .
To encourage exploration for domestic sources of minerals , the Office of Minerals Exploration ( OME ) of the U.S. Department of the Interior offers financial assistance to firms and individuals who desire to explore their properties or claims for 1 or more of the 32 mineral commodities listed in the OME regulations .
Information , application forms , and assistance in filing may be obtained from the Office of Minerals Exploration , U.S. Department of the Interior , Washington 25 , D.C. , or from the appropriate regional office listed below .
Only a very few of the more advanced ones , such as India and Pakistan , have developed systematic techniques of programing .
Some of the most dramatic successes of Communism in winning local support can be traced to the identification -- correct or not -- of Communist regimes with personal honesty and pro-Western regimes with corruption .
The United States can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with aid on a sustained basis , tailored to priority needs , to those countries making serious efforts in self-help .
It must be recognized as a slow-acting tool designed to prevent political and military crises such as those recently confronted in Laos and Cuba .
If the less developed countries are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach , the United States , as the principal supplier of external aid , must be prepared to give long-term commitments .
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known .
So , I say , Mr. Speaker , God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body but for the United States of America and the free world .
You remember the words of President Kennedy a week or so ago , when someone asked him when he was in Canada , and Dean Rusk was in Europe , and Vice President Johnson was in Asia , `` Who is running the store '' ? ?
And he said , `` The same fellow who has been running it , Sam Rayburn '' .
Mr. Speaker , I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; ;
Remarks of Hon. Joseph P. Addabbo of New York
It is notably significant that so many Members from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for our beloved Speaker , the Honorable Sam Rayburn .
I purposely refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from the State of Texas .
I did so because I agree with so many here today , that he is the beloved Speaker of all the people of the United States .
In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced many memorable moments .
And , like many of you here present , I hold as the highlight of all , the occasion of my first meeting with the honorable Speaker of the House .
At that time , he afforded me the courtesy of his busy workday for such length as I may need , to speak about my background , my hopes , my views on various national and local topics , and any problems that I may have been vexed with at the time .
He is most effective in the ordinary business of the House , and in the legislative accomplishments of this session , he easily rose to great occasion -- even at the height of unpleasantness and exciting legislative struggle -- and as the Nation witnessed these contests , he rose , even as admitted by those who differed with him , to the proportions of a hero and a noble partisan .
May the Divine Speaker in Heaven bless this country with Sam Rayburn's continued service here for years to come .
Remarks of Hon. Wayne L. Hays of Ohio
It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for Speaker Sam Rayburn .
It seems to me that the prayers of the whole free world must rise like some vast petition to Providence that Sam Rayburn's vigor and his life remain undiminished through the coming decades .
But the task is beyond me because I hold it impossible to compress in a sentence or two the complicated and prodigious contributions Sam Rayburn has made as an individual , as a legislator , as a statesman and as a leader and conciliator , to the majestic progress of this Nation .
It happens that I am a legislator from Ohio and that I feel deeply about the needs , the aspirations , the interests of my district and my State .
What Sam Rayburn's life proves to us all is the magnificent lesson in political science that one can devotedly and with absolute dedication represent the seemingly provincial interests of one's own community , one's own district , one's own State , and by that help himself represent even better the sweep and scope of the problems of this the greatest nation of all time .
For Sam Rayburn never forgot Bonham , his home community , and he never forgot Texas .
In the same way I like to think we owe our loyalty as legislators to our community , our district , our State .
And , if we follow the Rayburn pattern , as consciously or by an instinctual political sense I like to think I have followed it , then the very nature of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected in the devotion of our services to our country .
For what Sam Rayburn's life in this House teaches us is that loyalty and character are not divisive and there is no such thing as being for your country and neglecting your district .
This may not be the greatest but it certainly comes close to being the greatest lesson Sam Rayburn's career , up to this hour , teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political life under our processes of government .
More than that , Sam Rayburn is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count some of his best friends in the opposition .
And the name Rayburn is one of the most dominant in the history of American politics for the last half century .
It is , I insist , hard to define the Rayburn contribution to our political civilization because it is so massive and so widespread and so complicated , and because it goes so deep .
But this we know : Here is a great life that in every area of American politics gives the American people occasion for pride and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities of honor , decency , and self-respect .
I pray to God that he may be spared to us for many years to come for this is an influence the United States and the whole world can ill afford to lose .
Remarks of Hon. Melvin Price of Illinois
All but two of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under the Speakership of Sam Rayburn .
And Sam Rayburn is a great man -- one who will go down in American history as a truly great leader of the Nation .
I pay my personal tribute to Sam Rayburn , stalwart Texan and great American , not only because today he establishes a record of having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than twice as long as Henry Clay , but because of the contributions he has made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half century of service as a Member of Congress .
Speaker Rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the House in the Speaker's chair .
He had an outstanding record as a legislator since the start of his career in the House in 1913 , the 63d Congress .
No one has sponsored more progressive and important legislation than has Sam Rayburn .
He is the recognized `` father '' of the Rural Electrification Administration and the Security and Exchange Commission .
But to run the gauntlet of the programs Sam Rayburn brought into being through his legislative efforts would fill the pages of today's Record .
No greater pleasure has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker , this great legislator , this great Texan , this great American .
Remarks of Hon. John S. Monagan of Connecticut
Sam Rayburn is one of the greatest American public figures in the history of our country and I consider that I have been singly honored in the privilege of knowing Sam Rayburn and sharing with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States .
Others may speak of Speaker Rayburn's uniquely long and devoted service ; ;
of his championship of many of the progressive social measures which adorn our statute books today , and of his cooperation in times of adversity with Presidents of both of our major parties in helping to pilot the Ship of State through the shoals of today's stormy international seas .
I prefer to speak , however , of Sam Rayburn , the person , rather than Sam Rayburn , the American institution .
Although Sam Rayburn affects a gruff exterior in many instances , nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart and gentle disposition .
No one could be more devoted than he to the American Congress as an institution and more aware of its historical significance in the political history of the world , and I shall never forget his moving talks , delivered in simple yet eloquent words , upon the meaning of our jobs as Representatives in the operation of representative government and their importance in the context of today's assault upon popular government .
Above all , he is a person to whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman .
On September 16 , Sam Rayburn will have served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud to join with others in marking this date , and in expressing my esteem for that notable American , Sam Rayburn .
Meaningful policies include : ( A ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( B ) when cars should be traded , ( C ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( D ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( E ) employees taking cars home , and ( F ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles .
A survey of practices and/or policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with Rhode Island's practices .
Mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( A ) actual mileage and ( B ) fixed monthly allowances .
Both allowances are governed by conditions and restrictions set forth in detail in the state's Travel Regulations .
It is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles for use of employees in Rhode Island .
The Registry of Motor Vehicles indicates that at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917 .
It was organizationally the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation .
In 1951 the pool's operation was transferred to the newly-created Department of Administration , an agency established as the central staff and auxiliary department of the state government .
In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services .
( Note : So far as State Police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) .
Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders .
The more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the Director of Administration .
The Rhode Island property tax
Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property .
These problems are not local to Rhode Island , but are recognized as common to all states .
A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield .
This accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in Rhode Island .
The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : ``
An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the State .
The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' .
The resulting setup , it was declared , `` would be similar to that which is in successful operation in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode Island '' .
Practices in Rhode Island .
To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island .
To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge .
Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than '' a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting .
Through their professional organization , the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed .
It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats .
It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes .
Slightly more than 5,000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard prior to the recent passage of the state boating law .
Only a few more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close .
The assessors' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem .
Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort .
With minor exceptions , this expansion was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state manufacturers already operating here .
What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs .
Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R. I. Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls .
Leading firms that arranged their own financing included Speidel Corporation , Cornell-Dubilier , Photek , Inc. Division of Textron , Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry , W. R. Cobb Company , and Mays Manufacturing Company .
Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council's Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year's operation .
Industrial Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a Rhode Island location .
They are conscious of this state's new feeling of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island .
Although much of the Industrial Division's promotional effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by major industries , small business is also afforded considerable attention .
Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories .
A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies .
Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification .
During the past year , 10,517 government bid invitations were received and 4,427 procurement leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers .
The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad .
This office cooperates with the U. S. Department of Commerce in giving statewide coverage to services which include : statistics on markets abroad ; ;
We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established new plants here .
To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the Industrial Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 .
Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) .
In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal .
Magazine advertising included Management Methods , The New Englander , U. S. Investor , and Plant Location .
Two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from foreign countries .
New York led in the number of inquiries , followed by California , New Jersey , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania .
Among foreign countries responding were Germany , Canada , Brazil and India .
An important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` Missionary calls '' by one of this Division's industrial promotion specialists .
More than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including New York , Brooklyn , Long Island City , Newark , Elizabeth , Stamford , Waterbury , New Haven , Bridgeport , Boston , Cambridge , Worcester , and Waltham .
We received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating Rhode Island's industrial advantages , and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits .
During 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the Development Council's Industrial Division .
In June , the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce -- in conjunction with local trade associations , chambers of commerce , and bank officials -- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the United States' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 .
Approximately 100 representatives of business attended this conclave and the R. I. Export Conference Committee later voted to continue the activity as an annual event .
On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School .
Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr. of the U. S. Dept. of Commerce .
Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , and Edwin C. Kepler of General Electric Company .
Workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Maine , and rounded out a rewarding program .
In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal .
Devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in Rhode Island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this Division .
Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors .
1184 copies of the R. I. Directory Of Manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state .
The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry '' , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue .
Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel .
Stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode Island .
The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable detail in the enabling act of the Development Council , which assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties in the field of planning .
Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island .
As the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in this report , plus an analysis of our own enabling act , the Planning Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused a reorientation of its work program .
These objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the Planning Division .
Recognizing the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration that `` Metropolian Planning ( in Rhode Island ) means , or should mean , state planning '' , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island's problems .
Recent events -- particularly the necessity of providing planning information for the statewide origin/destination study of the Department of Public Works -- indicate that this schedule will have to be accelerated .
With the aid of matching federal funds available under Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 as amended , the planning division began a one year program July 1 , 1960 to complete the inventory phase of the state planning program .
The rural land use study is being carried out under contract by the University of Rhode Island and identifies all agricultural land uses in the state by type of use .
It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island .
There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) .
Unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state Bureau of Audits .
Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 .
The other four states end on varying dates : Alabama ( Sept. 30 ) , New York ( March 31 ) , Pennsylvania ( May 31 ) , and Texas ( August 31 ) .
In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) .
In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) .
In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : :
( Georgia , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Minnesota , Virginia , and South Carolina ) .
One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 .
Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 .
However , only Illinois , Oregon , Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity .
Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered .
The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them .
Second , the shift to a uniform July 1 to June 30 fiscal year will , of itself , improve the tax collection calendars of the great majority of cities and towns .
Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and/or coordinated fiscal tax year calendar .
The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below .
Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it .
These municipalities include : Barrington , Lincoln , Middletown , Newport , North Kingstown , and South Kingstown .
One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only .
Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity .
These cities and towns include Bristol , Glocester , Pawtucket , Cumberland , Central Falls , and Woonsocket .
Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma .
However , neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1 to June 30 fiscal year .
In that both cities end their fiscal years on September 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with September 30 and ending with June 30 .
These three installment dates would be : October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 ( Providence ) and November 15 , February 16 and May 15 ( Cranston ) .
Their tax collection calendar could then be : July 25 , October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 , ( Providence ) ; ;
and August 15 , November 15 , February 17 , and May 15 , ( Cranston ) .
Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods .
Assuming an adjustment to the July 1 to June 30 fiscal year , the required adjustment of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 3 .
Fortunately , such cases in Rhode Island are more the exception than the rule .
In addition , no two Rhode Island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition .
Rhode Island Heritage Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
The theme of Rhode Island Heritage Week for 1961 will be `` Independence and Union '' .
It commemorates the 185th anniversary of Rhode Island's Independence when , upon May 4 , 1776 , the General Assembly , by its action , established the first free republic in the New World .
As this year marks the centennial of the beginning of the Civil War , this fact is being commemorated with several exhibits throughout the State , but most of all paying tribute to the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the City of Washington , putting at the disposal of President Lincoln the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time .
On April 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1:00 P.M. at the Dexter Training Grounds in Providence .
The Independence Day celebration will be properly observed with a big military and civic parade from West Warwick to the Greene Homestead in Anthony ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of april 29th to may 7th , 1961 , as Rhode Island Heritage Week , advising our citizens that throughout this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open to visitors as well as industrial plants , craft shops , museums and libraries and I earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding week .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and on Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Armed Forces Day Proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of our Armed Forces under the National Security Act of 1947 .
Armed Forces Day is the annual report on this investment , a public presentation designed to give our own people , and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom and justice , the best possible opportunity to see and understand what we have and why we have it .
It is the purpose of Armed Forces Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed Forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security .
now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Saturday , May 20th , 1961 , as Armed Forces Day , reminding our citizens that we should rededicate ourselves to our Nation , respecting the uniforms as the guardians of our precious liberty .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 17th day of May , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
National Maritime Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The President of the United States , pursuant to a Joint Resolution of Congress , has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 declaring May 22nd to be National Maritime Day .
This date in 1819 marked the sailing of the S. S. `` Savannah '' from Savannah , Georgia , for Liverpool .
The Merchant Marine is the `` Fourth Arm of Defense '' , for a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to the economy and security of our Nation .
Through trade and travel across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly nations across the seas ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Monday , May 22nd , 1961 , as National Maritime Day , reminding our citizens that American Merchant ships and American seamen are ready at all times to serve our Nation in the cause of freedom and justice .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 20th day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The Miss Rhode Island Pageant is sponsored by the Rhode Island Junior Chamber of Commerce as a part of the nation-wide search for the typical American girl -- a Miss America from Rhode Island .
This is an official preliminary contest of the Miss America Pageant held each September in Atlantic City .
The ideal girl -- possessed of talent , poise , intelligence , personality and beauty of face and figure -- is chosen each year to represent Rhode Island .
Miss Sally May Saabye , ( Miss Rhode Island 1960 ) says that within a short time -- on June 17th -- her reign will come to an end .
She hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community by attending our Pageants and the State Pageant June 17 ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of June 11th to 17th , 1961 , as Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week , with deep appreciation to the Jaycees , local and statewide , for the presentation of their beautiful Pageants and the encouragement of all Rhode Island girls to participate .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 11th day of June , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
United Nations Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
For the purpose of maintaining international peace and promoting the advancement of all people , the United States of America joined in founding the United Nations .
The United Nations Charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world .
It is extremely important for each American to realize that the theme `` The United Nations Is Your Business '' applies to him personally .
The world desperately needs the United Nations .
United Nations Day is the birthday of the United Nations , mankind's noblest attempt to establish lasting peace with justice ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Tuesday , October 24th , 1961 , as United Nations day , calling upon all our citizens to engage in appropriate observances , demonstrating faith in the United Nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding of the aims of the United Nations throughout the land .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
The State Ballet of Rhode Island Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
Ballet flowered in Italy during the next hundred years , and about 1550 was carried to France when the Italian princess , Catherine De Medicis , married the King of France .
The most famous ballet of that time was called Ballet Comique De La Reine ( 1581 ) .
The State Ballet of Rhode Island , the first incorporated group , was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge of the art of ballet in the Community , to promote interest in ballet performances , to contribute to the cultural life of the State , and to provide opportunity for gifted dance students who , for one reason or another , are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional state ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of Monday , November 13 , 1961 , as the State Ballet of Rhode Island Week , requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the State .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 23d day of October , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Proclamation Thanksgiving Day by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
As another Thanksgiving draws near , let us take time out from the often hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled the hearts of the Pilgrims on the first Thanksgiving .
The Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during their first year in the new land .
We who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day .
The Lord has shown time and time again His love for us .
We have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other nations to realize with humble gratitude that God's Providence has been with us since the very beginning of our country .
It is at this time that we should imitate the Pilgrims by accompanying our prayers of thanks with the conviction that we shall continue to be in dire need for the Lord's protection in the future , if we are to have peace ; ;
now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Thursday , November 23rd , 1961 , as Thanksgiving Day ,
And so , let us remember on this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage to the Pilgrims , but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue to protect us in the future as He has in the past .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
John A. Notte Jr. ,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Act of July 3 , 1952 ( 66 Stat. 328 ) as amended ( 42 U.S.C. 1952-1958 ) , is further amended to read as follows : Section 1 .
In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto .
As used in this Act , the term ' saline water ' includes sea water , brackish water , and other mineralized or chemically charged water , and the term ' United States ' extends to and includes the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico , and the territories and possessions of the United States .
In order to accomplish the purposes of this Act , the Secretary of the Interior shall -- ( A )
recommend to the Congress from time to time authorization for construction and operation , or for participation in the construction and operation , of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines , on the basis of subsections ( A ) and ( B ) above , has great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this Act , such recommendation to be accompanied by a report on the size , location , and cost of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with respect thereto ; ;
In carrying out his functions under Section 2 of this Act , the Secretary may -- ( A )
cause on-site inspections to be made of promising projects , domestic and foreign , and , in the case of projects located in the United States , cooperate and participate in their development in instances in which the purposes of this Act will be served thereby ; ;
Research and development activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly with the Department of Defense to the end that developments under this Act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the defense of the Nation and that developments which are primarily of a military nature will , to the greatest practicable extent compatible with military and security requirements , be available to advance the purposes of this Act and to strengthen the civil economy of the Nation .
The fullest cooperation by and with Atomic Energy Commission , the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , the Department of State , and other concerned agencies shall also be carried out in the interest of achieving the objectives of this Act .
All research within the United States contracted for , sponsored , cosponsored , or authorized under authority of this Act , shall be provided for in such manner that all information , uses , products , processes , patents , and other developments resulting from such research developed by Government expenditure will ( with such exceptions and limitations , if any , as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national defense ) be available to the general public .
The Secretary may dispose of water and byproducts resulting from his operations under this Act .
The Secretary shall make reports to the President and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and of prospective action during the ensuing year .
The Secretary of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Act .
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75,000,000 in all , ( A ) to carry out the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; ;
and ( C ) to finance , for not more than three years beyond the end of said period , such activities as are required to correlate , coordinate , and round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to this Act : Provided , That funds available in any one year for research and development may , subject to the approval of the Secretary of State to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the United States , be expended in cooperation with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development of processes useful to the program in the United States : And provided further , That every such contract or agreement made with any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions effective to insure that the results or information developed in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the United States for the use of the United States throughout the world and for the use of the general public within the United States .
Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2 , 1958 ( 72 Stat. 1707 ; ;
42 U. S. C. 1958 ( ) ) , is hereby amended to read :
The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved .
Upon the expiration of a period deemed adequate for demonstration purposes for each plant , but not to exceed such twelve-year period , the Secretary shall proceed as promptly as practicable to dispose of any plants so constructed by sale to the highest bidder , or as may otherwise be directed by Act of Congress .
Upon such sale , there shall be returned to any State or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under Section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds of the sale .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 )
The Secretary of the Interior or any duly authorized representative shall be entitled to admission to , and to require reports from the operator of , any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a State ( excluding any coal or lignite mine ) , the products of which regularly enter commerce or the operations of which substantially affect commerce , for the purpose of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized in the first section of this Act .
the term `` State '' includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any possession of the United States ; ;
The Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report of his findings , together with recommendations for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) based upon such findings , to the Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this Act .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public , Indian , and other lands as provided in this Act .
Subject to the limitations of this Act , the Secretary shall make stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of the sale by them of newly mined ores , or concentrates produced therefrom , as provided in this Act .
Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of lead as long as the market price for common lead at New York , New York , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 75 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary .
Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of zinc as long as the market price for prime western zinc at East Saint Louis , Illinois , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 55 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary .
During fiscal year 1959 , six courses were conducted : Forensic Pathology , Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Ophthalmic Pathology , Pathology of the Oral Regions , and a Cardiovasculatory Pathology Seminar .
During fiscal year 1960 , seven courses were conducted : Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Forensic Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Pathology of the Oral Regions , Ophthalmic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Orthopedic Pathology .
From 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , six courses were conducted : Workshop in Resident Training in Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Application of Histochemistry of Pathology , Orthopedic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Forensic Pathology .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , additional research affiliations were effected with the U. S. Army Medical Research and Development Command to conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy , and for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure and function of ocular tissue .
Also , the Defense Atomic Support Agency sponsored a long-range study at this Institute on the response of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation .
Medical Illustration Service
The Medical Illustration Service is responsible for the collection , publication , exhibition , and file of medical illustration material of medico-military importance to the Armed Forces .
In addition to maintaining a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases , wounds , and injuries of military importance , it provides facilities for clinical photography , photomicrography , and medical arts , and operates a printing plant , by permission of Congressional Committee , for publication of an `` Atlas of Tumor Pathology '' .
Visual and operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service , were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises .
Members of the Medical Illustration Service lectured and conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel and various civilian medical organizations .
Demonstrations of new and projected training aids were conducted at the Medical Service Instructor's Conference , Brooke Army Medical Center , Texas .
In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense on instruction in emergency medical care , the Medical Illustration Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins which are being field tested ; ;
and overhead projector transparency sets on the subjects of Military Sanitation : First Aid For Soldiers ; ;
Bandaging And Splinting ; ;
The Emergency Medical Treatment Unit , Phase 1 ; ;
and Emergency War Surgery in support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) Handbook .
Fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of `` Emergency War Surgery ( NATO ) '' were assembled and distributed to the Medical Military Services of foreign Governments associated with NATO and South-East Asia Treaty Organization .
The British and Canadian Liaison Officers , as well as Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization , the American Red Cross , and similar interested organizations were informed from time to time as training aids were developed .
Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed and distributed , and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration Service .
Illustrations were prepared for 11 Department of the Army manuals and one Graphic Training Aid .
Sixteen lantern slide sets were loaned to the Government of India and eight sets were forwarded to the U.S. Embassy , Managua , Nicaragua for the Educational Exchange Program .
The Senate Subcommittee on Reorganization and International Organizations was provided samples of visual aids on first aid and personal health produced by the Medical Illustration Service .
Six fascicles ( 10,000 copies each ) of the `` Atlas Of Tumor Pathology '' were completed during the period of this report .
The American Registry Of Pathology
This consists of 25 individual registries , two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 ( The Registry Of Forensic Pathology and The Testicular Tumor Registry ) .
The American Registry Of Pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in medical research and education between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international basis , under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the National Research Council and The Surgeons General of the Army , Navy , and Air Force .
In this same period , six new fascicles of the Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide .
Forty-five new Clinico-pathologic Conferences were prepared , bringing the total to 61 available for loan distribution .
Nine new teaching Clinico-pathologic Conference sets were prepared , which makes a total of 70 types of teaching sets for loan .
The Clinico-pathologic Conferences have been acknowledged as of great value and in consequent great demand by the small isolated military hospitals .
The Medical Museum
In fiscal year 1959 , the Medical Museum was moved to Chase Hall , a temporary building on Independence Avenue at Ninth Street , Southwest , and continued to display to the public the achievements of the Armed Forces Medical Services .
An exhibit , `` Macropathology -- An Ancient Art , A New Science '' , was presented at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association .
A three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` A Century Of Naval Medicine '' was formally presented to The Director by George S. Squibb , great-grandson of the founder of E. R. Squibb and Sons , for permanent display in the Museum .
Three hundred five copies of the Manual Of Macropathological Techniques were distributed .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building `` S '' on the Mall from Chase Hall .
Throughout the period and during the movement operation , the Museum continued its functional support of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology .
Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency
The Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency , established in 1949 , has published , since January 1950 , The United States Armed Forces Medical Journal as a triservice publication to furnish material of professional interest to Medical Department officers of the three military services .
Its supplement , The Medical Technicians Bulletin , supplied similar material to enlisted medical personnel .
These publications replaced the U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin , published continuously from 1907 through 1959 , as well as the Navy's Hospital Corps Quarterly and the Bulletin of the U. S. Army Medical Department , published from 1922 to 1949 .
In addition , their establishment made it unnecessary to begin publication of a contemplated Air Force medical bulletin .
Estimated annual savings resulting from publication of the Journal and Bulletin on a triservice basis , as compared with the cost of producing separate periodicals for each service , were between $65,000 and $70,000 .
From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960 , 24 numbers of the Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published .
The Council on National Defense of the American Medical Association contributed a brief article to each issue entitled , `` This Is Your A.M.A. '' .
Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal , the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was changed from varityping to hot typesetting .
Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 .
The February 1960 issue marked the reinstitution of the section entitled , `` The Medical Officer Writes '' .
Replacing the discontinued Medical Technicians Bulletin , publication of which was suspended with the November-December 1959 issue , a section called `` Technical Notes '' was inaugurated on a bimonthly basis beginning with the April 1960 issue .
Occasional features were published on historical medicine , special reports , bibliography , and `` Collector's Items '' .
In May 1960 , the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology began a series of articles on the `` Medical Museum '' , and in June , the Institute started contributing a regular monthly `` Case For Diagnosis '' .
The Institute also planned to furnish a regular series of articles , beginning in the fall of 1960 , on its more significant Scientific Exhibits .
The Armed Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces .
The first report in this continuing series appeared in the September 1960 issue of the Journal .
Among the most likely producers of detectable radio line spectra are the light diatomic hydrides OH and CH ; ;
somewhat less likely sources are the heavier hydrides SH , SiH , and Aj .
in interstellar gas , concentrations as low as Af molecules per Af may be sufficient , as compared to the Af hydrogen atom's Af required for detection of the 21-cm line .
Preparations are being made for similar experiments on CH and SH radicals .
The Bureau is pursuing an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration services in the range 1.5 to 20 Af .
Preliminary calibrations of the resistors have been made from 4.21 to 2.16 Af at every 0.1 Af .
This project was carried out under sponsorship of the Ballistic Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command , U.S. Air Force , and had as its goal the investigation of the transport by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding .
The results of the study , based on collision integrals computed from the latest critically evaluated data on intermolecular forces in air , will be reported in the form of a table of viscosity , thermal conductivity , thermal diffusion , and diffusion coefficients at temperatures of 1,000 to 10,000 Af and of logarithm of pressure in atmospheres from Af to Af times normal density .
In March , 1961 , representatives of the national laboratories of Australia , Canada , The Netherlands , United Kingdom , U.S.S.R. , United States , and West Germany , met at the NBS to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature scale between 10 and 90 Af .
These thermometers have now been sent to the United Kingdom for calibration at the National Physical Laboratory .
During the last week of march 1961 , Columbus , Ohio was the site of the Fourth Symposium on Temperature , Its Measurement And Control In Science And Industry .
The Symposium , which was jointly sponsored by the American Institute of Physics , the Instrument Society of America , and the National Bureau of Standards , attracted nearly one thousand registrants , including many from abroad .
The Bureau contributed to the planning and success of the Symposium through the efforts of Mr. W. A. Wildhack , General Chairman , and Dr. C. M. Herzfeld , Program Chairman .
Dr. A. V. Astin , NBS Director , opened the 5-day session with introductory remarks , following which a total of twenty-six papers were given throughout the week by NBS scientists , from both the Washington and Boulder Laboratories .
Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency , a data center was established to gather and index all published information on atomic transition probabilities .
In addition to the penalties provided in Title 18 , United States Code , Section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this Title , shall forfeit all rights under this Title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same .
In connection with any claim decided by the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made , the Commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
Written evidence that the claimant and any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney's fees shall be conclusive upon the Commission : Provided , however , That the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
Any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
The Commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection .
Whoever , in the United States or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay , or promises to pay , or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any such claim , compensation which , when added to any amount previously paid on account of such services , will exceed the amount of fees so determined by the Commission , shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , and , upon conviction thereof , shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months , or both , and if any such payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and , in addition thereto , any such person shall forfeit all rights under this Title .
The Attorney General shall assign such officers and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent the United States as to any claims of the Government of the United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction under this title .
Any and all payments required to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
Any claimant whose claim is denied , or is approved for less than the full amount of such claim , shall be entitled , under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe , to a hearing before the Commission , or its duly authorized representatives , with respect to such claim .
The action of the Commission in allowing or denying any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of State or any other official , department , agency , or establishment of the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise .
The Commission shall comply with the provisons of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise specifically provided by this title .
The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title .
The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( B ) of Section 4 of this Act for transmission to the foreign government concerned .
The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : :
Provided , That nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission , or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected under the provisions of this legislation .
Subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by Section 8 of this Title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title , in accordance with the award .
Such payments , and applications for such payments , shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe .
There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment made pursuant to subsection ( C ) of Section 8 , as reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the United States , an amount equal to 5 per centum of such payment .
if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability , payment shall be made to his legal representative : Provided , That if the total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator , payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto , without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates ; ;
in the case of a partnership or corporation , the existence of which has been terminated and on behalf of which an award is made , payment shall be made , except as provided in paragraphs ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto ; ;
in the case of any assignment of an award , or any part thereof , which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed , after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury , payment may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear .
Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment .
Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or satisfaction , in whole or in part , of any claim on behalf of any national of the United States against any foreign government .
There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; ;
and ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
All payments authorized under Section 7 of this Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund , as the case may be , and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the payments authorized by Section 7 of this Title .
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into -- ( 1 )
the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount paid by the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 ; ;
a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in Section 7 ( B ) of this Title -- ( 1 )
The Secretary of the Treasury , upon the concurrence of the Secretary of State , is authorized and directed , out of the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , after completing the payments of such funds pursuant to subsection ( C ) of this Section , to make payment of the balance of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under Article 1 ( C ) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 .
The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 .
Such certification shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other official or department , agency , or establishment of the United States .
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title .
Though the number of people flowing in and out of our metropolitan areas each day has increased tremendously since World War 2 , , total annual rail commutation dropped 124 million for 1947 to 1957 .
Nowhere has this decline been more painfully evident than in the New York City area .
Here the New York Central Railroad , one of the Nation's most important carriers , has alone lost 47.6 percent of its passengers since 1949 .
At this time of crisis in our Nation's commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has appeared in the form of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad's proposal for control of the Baltimore & Ohio railroads .
The New York Central has pointed out that this control , if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission , would give the combined C. & O. - B. & O. Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the New York Central .
Not only is this kind of duplication wasteful , but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic away from the New York Central and other railroads serving the area .
The New York Central notes : ``
The freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the C. & O. - B. & O. provides the backbone of Central's revenues .
These revenues make it possible to provide essential freight and passenger service over the entire New York Central system as well as the New York area commuter and terminal freight services .
If these services are to be maintained , the New York Central must have the revenues to make them possible '' .
The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City .
There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful C. & O. - B. & O. merger scheme '' --
The logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious that B. & O. was publicly committed to the approach outlined here .
Then , abandoning the studies in the face of their promising outlook for all concerned , B. & O. entered on-again-off-again negotiations with C. & O. which resulted in the present situation .
In the light of the facts at hand , however , New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest '' .
The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its deliberations on the proposed C. & O. - B. & O. merger on June 18 .
Obviously , the Interstate Commerce Commission will not force the New York Central to further curtail its commuter operations by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge .
We must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter -- the two-way B. & O. - C. & O. merger , or the three-way New York Central - B. & O. - C. & O. merger .
Mr. Speaker , I rise today to pay tribute to a great newspaper , the New York Times , on the occasion of a major change in its top executive command .
Arthur Hays Sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American journalism on the occasion of his retirement .
I am pleased to note that Mr. Sulzberger will continue to serve as chairman of the board of the New York Times .
Mr. Sulzberger's successor as publisher is Mr. Orvil E. Dryfoos , who is president of the New York Times Co. , and who has been with the Times since 1942 .
Mr. Dryfoos' outstanding career as a journalist guarantees that the high standards which have made the Times one of the world's great newspapers will be maintained .
I am also pleased to note that Mr. John B. Oakes , a member of the Times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor .
Mr. Oakes succeeds Charles Merz , editor since 1938 , who now becomes editor emeritus .
I should like at this time , Mr. Speaker , to pay warm tribute to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism .
My heartiest congratulations go to their successors , Orvil E. Dryfoos and John B. Oakes , who can be counted upon to sustain the illustrious tradition of the New York Times .
The people of the 17th District of New York , and I as their Representative in Congress , take great pride in the New York Times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world .
Mr. Speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine .
Yesterday , I had the privilege of reading a thoughtful article in the U.S. News & World Report of May 8 which discussed this type of action in more detail , including both its advantages and its disadvantages .
Under leave to extend my remarks , I include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the U.S. News & World Report : `` your Congressman , Samuel S. Stratton , reports from Washington , May 1 , 1961
Cuban S.S.R. : Whatever may have been the setbacks resulting from the unsuccessful attempt of the Cuban rebels to establish a beachhead on the Castro-held mainland last week , there was at least one positive benefit , and that was the clear-cut revelation to the whole world of the complete conversion of Cuba into a Russian-dominated military base .
In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment .
Somehow , the pictures and stories of Soviet T-34 tanks on Cuban beaches and Russian Mig jet fighters strafing rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark , blunt truth of what it means to have a Russian military base 90 miles away from home .
Russian tanks and planes in Cuba jeopardize the security of the United States , violate the Monroe Doctrine , and threaten the security of every other Latin American republic .
Once the full extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear , President Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone .
But the Latin American republics who have been rather inclined to drag their feet on taking action against Castro also reacted swiftly last week by finally throwing Cuba off the Inter-American Defense Board .
For years the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude Castro's representative from secret military talks .
But it took the pictures of the Migs and the T-34 tanks to do the job .
You can see it , for example , in the extensive efforts President Kennedy has made to enlist solid bipartisan support for his actions toward both Cuba and Laos ; ;
Personally , I think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of Cuba .
We simply can't tolerate further Russian weapons , including the possibility of long-range nuclear missiles , being located in Cuba .
A naval blockade would be thoroughly in line with the Monroe Doctrine , would be a relatively simple operation to carry out , and would bring an abrupt end to Soviet penetration of our hemisphere '' .
( from U.s. News & World Report , May 8 , 1961 )
Look at Castro now -- cockier than ever with arms and agents to threaten the Americas .
How can the United States act ? ?
In it they see a way to isolate Cuba , stop infiltration , maybe finish Castro , too .
This is the question now facing President Kennedy : How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to Communist infiltration of this hemisphere ? ?
On April 25 , the White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U.S. trade with Cuba was being considered .
Its aim : To undermine further Cuba's economy .
Another strategy -- bolder and tougher -- was also attracting notice in Washington : a naval and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world , destroy Castro .
Blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the Monroe Doctrine .
It could halt a flood of Communist arms and strategic supplies now reaching Castro .
It could stop Cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to South America .
It would be the most severe reprisal , short of declared war , that the United States could invoke against Castro .
It is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , Members of Congress , officers in the Pentagon .
Military experts say a tight naval blockade off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require two naval task forces , each built around an aircraft carrier with a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers .
The Navy , on April 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier Shangri-La from the Mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba .
In a broad sense , it would reaffirm the Monroe Doctrine by opposing Communist interference in the Western Hemisphere .
Primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia .
At times , three ships a day from the Soviet bloc are unloading in Cuban ports .
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236 , 66th Congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the States , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment .
The authority for the program was renewed several times until the vocational rehabilitation program was made permanent as Title 5 , of the Social Security Act in 1935 .
Recognizing the limitations of such a program , the 78th Congress in 1943 passed P. L. 113 , which broadened the concept of rehabilitation to include the provision of physical restoration services to remove or reduce disabilities , and which revised the financing structure .
To assist the States , therefore , in rehabilitating handicapped individuals , `` so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative employment to the extent of their capabilities '' , the 83rd Congress enacted the Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1954 ( P. L. 565 ) .
These amendments to the Vocational Rehabilitation Act were designed to help provide for more specialized rehabilitation facilities , for more sheltered and `` half-way '' workshops , for greater numbers of adequately trained personnel , for more comprehensive services to individuals ( particularly to the homebound and the blind ) , and for other administrative improvements to increase the program's overall effectiveness .
Under the law as it existed until 1943 , the Federal Government made grants to the States on the basis of population , matching State expenditures on a 50-50 basis .
Under P. L. 113 , 78th Congress , the Federal Government assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary State expenditures in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of the disabled , and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients with rehabilitation case services .
The following table shows , for selected years , the authorizations , appropriations , allotment base , Federal grants to States and State matching funds for this part of the grant program :
In order to assist the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , Section 2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a State's population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income .
The Act further provides for a `` floor '' or minimum allotment , set at the 1954 level , which is called the `` base '' allotment , and a `` ceiling '' or maximum allotment , for each State .
These provisions are designed to reflect the differences in wealth and population among the States , with the objective that a vocationally handicapped person have access to needed services regardless of whether he resides in a State with a low or high per capita income or a sparsely or thickly populated State .
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ;
the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia , and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii .
For each State ( except Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years .
( See Source of Data , below for per capita income data to be used in this step .
Determine the average per capita income for the U. S. based on the last three years .
( See Source of Data , below , for per capita income data to be used in this step .
Determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U. S. ( Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U. S. .
By law this is 75% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico .
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's allotment percentage must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme .
( See Source of Data , below for population data to be used in this step .
( For each State , make all computations set forth in items 1 to 8 above , and then add the results obtained for each State in item 8 .
Regardless of its unadjusted allotment , each State is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954 -- increased by a uniform percentage of 5.4865771 which brings total 1954 allotments to all States up to $23,000,000 .
For the States which maintain two separate agencies -- one for the vocational rehabilitation of the blind , and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the blind -- the Act specifies that their minimum ( base ) allotment shall be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided in fiscal year 1954 .
Prior to 1960 , in order to provide matching for the minimum ( base ) allotment , State funds had to equal 1954 State funds .
Prior to and since 1960 the rest of the support allotment is matched at rates related to the fiscal capacity of the State , with a pivot of 40% State ( or 60% Federal ) participation in total program costs .
The percentage of Federal participation in such costs for any State is referred to in the law as that State's `` Federal share '' .
For purposes of this explanation , this percentage is referred to as the State's `` unadjusted Federal share '' .
Beginning in 1960 , the matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted ( upward or downward , as required ) 25% a year , so that by 1963 the entire support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot State share , with maximum and minimum State shares of 50% and 30% , respectively .
The pre-1960 rate of Federal participation with respect to any State's base allotment , as well as the adjusted rate in effect during the 1960 - 1962 period , is designated by the statute as that State's `` adjusted Federal Share '' .
The provisions for determining a State's unadjusted Federal share are designed to reflect the varying financial resources among the States .
The purpose of the adjusted Federal share relating to the base allotment and of the transition provisions for reaching the unadjusted Federal share is to prevent dislocations from abrupt changes in matching rates .
The method used for computing the respective Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set forth in the Act .
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ;
the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii .
For each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , determine the average per capita income for the last three years .
( the same amount used in item 1 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above .
Determine the average per capita income for the United States for the last three years .
( The same amount used in item 2 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above .
Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per capita income of the United States .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the United States .
Determine the particular State's `` Federal Share '' .
By law this is 70% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico .
( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed Federal share percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 .
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's Federal share must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme .
Other sources of information include the National Concrete Masonry Association , 38 South Dearborn Street , Chicago , Ill. , the Portland Cement Association , 33 West Grand Avenue , Chicago , Ill. , and the Structural Clay Products Association , Washington , D.C. .
The National Lumber Manufacturers Association , Washington , D. C. , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction .
The Structural Clay Products Institute , Washington , D.C. , is working to develop brick and clay products suitable for shelter construction .
The shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such a room built in a new home in the Washington , D.C. area in the Spring of 1959 .
Your local civil defense will gather its own information and will receive broad information from State and Federal sources .
The Federal Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential , commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout protection they would provide , and for how many people .
A former Du Pont official became a General Motors vice president and set about maximizing Du Pont's share of the General Motors market .
Lines of communications were established between the two companies and several Du Pont products were actively promoted .
Within a few years various Du Pont manufactured items were filling the entire requirements of from four to seven of General Motors' eight operating divisions .
The Fisher Body division , long controlled by the Fisher brothers under a voting trust even though General Motors owned a majority of its stock , followed an independent course for many years , but by 1947 and 1948 `` resistance had collapsed '' and its purchases from Du Pont `` compared favorably '' with purchases by other General Motors divisions .
Competitors came to receive higher percentage of General Motors business in later years , but it is `` likely '' that this trend stemmed `` at least in part '' from the needs of General Motors outstripping Du Pont's capacity .
The fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of Du Pont's production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to Du Pont by a stock interest .
The inference is overwhelming that Du Pont's commanding position was promoted by its stock interest and was not gained solely on competitive merit '' .
This Court agreed with the trial court `` that considerations of price , quality and service were not overlooked by either Du Pont or General Motors '' .
However , it determined that neither this factor , nor `` the fact that all concerned in high executive posts in both companies acted honorably and fairly , each in the honest conviction that his actions were in the best interests of his own company and without any design to overreach anyone , including Du Pont's competitors '' , outweighed the Government's claim for relief .
This claim , as submitted to the District Court and dismissed by it , 126 F.Supp.235 , alleged violation not only of 7 of the Clayton Act , but also of 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act .
However , this Court put to one side without consideration the Government's appeal from the dismissal of its Sherman Act allegations .
Indeed , as already noted , the Court proceeded on the assumption that the executives involved in the dealings between Du Pont and General Motors acted `` honorably and fairly '' and exercised their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests of their own companies .
This , however , did not bar finding that Du Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and finishes to General Motors ; ;
On the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion , the Court remanded the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate relief .
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination , after further hearing , of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition offensive to the statute .
The District Courts , in the framing of equitable decrees , are clothed ' with large discretion to model their judgements to fit the exigencies of the particular case .
International Salt Co. v. United States , 332 U. S. 392 , 400-401 '' .
This brings us to the course of the proceedings in the District Court .
This Court's judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18 , 1957 .
The first pretrial conference -- held to appoint amici curiae to represent the interest of the stockholders of Du Pont and General Motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent hearings -- took place on September 25 , 1957 .
At the outset , the Government's spokesman explained that counsel for the Government and for Du Pont had already held preliminary discussions with a view to arriving at a relief plan that both sides could recommend to the court .
Du Pont , he said , had proposed disenfranchisement of its General Motors stock along with other restrictions on the Du Pont - General Motors relationship .
The Government , deeming these suggestions inadequate , had urged that any judgment include divestiture of Du Pont's shares of General Motors .
Counsel for the Government invited Du Pont's views on this proposal before recommending a specific program , but stated that if the court desired , or if counsel for Du Pont thought further discussion would not be profitable , the Government was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days .
Counsel for Du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by both sides at an early date .
The Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25 , 1957 .
The plan called for divestiture by Du Pont of its 63,000,000 shares of General Motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders , as a dividend , over a period of ten years .
Christiana Securities Company and Delaware Realty & Investment Company , major stockholders in Du Pont , and the stockholders of Delaware were dealt with specially by provisions requiring the annual sale by a trustee , again over a ten-year period , of Du Pont's General Motors stock allocable to them , as well as any General Motors stock which Christiana and Delaware owned outright .
In addition , the right to vote the General Motors stock held by Du Pont was to be vested in Du Pont's stockholders , other than Christiana and Delaware and the stockholders of Delaware ; ;
Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring stock in or exercising control over General Motors ; ;
Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be prohibited to have any director or officer in common with General Motors , and vice versa ; ;
and General Motors and Du Pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement that provided for the purchase by General Motors of any specified percentage of its requirements of any Du Pont manufactured product , or for the grant of exclusive patent rights , or for a grant by General Motors to Du Pont of a preferential right to make or sell any chemical discovery of General Motors , or for the maintenance of any joint commercial enterprise by the two companies .
On motion of the Amici Curiae , the court directed that a ruling be obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax consequences of the Government's plan .
On May 9 , 1958 , the Commissioner announced his rulings .
The annual dividends paid to Du Pont stockholders in shares of General Motors stock would be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of Du Pont's earnings and profits .
In the case of taxpaying corporate stockholders , the measure would be the lesser of the fair market value of the shares or Du Pont's tax basis for them , which is approximately $2.09 per share .
The forced sale of the General Motors stock owned by or allocable to Christiana , Delaware , and the stockholders of Delaware , and deposited with the trustee , would result in a tax to those parties at the capital gains rate .
Du Pont's counterproposal was filed on May 14 , 1958 .
Under its plan Du Pont would retain its General Motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders the right to vote those shares .
Christiana and Delaware would , in turn , be required to pass on the voting rights to the General Motors shares allocable to them to their own stockholders .
Du Pont would be enjoined from having as a director , officer , or employee anyone who was simultaneously an officer or employee of General Motors , and no director , officer , or employee of Du Pont could serve as a director of General Motors without court approval .
Du Pont would be denied the right to acquire any additional General Motors stock except through General Motors' distributions of stock or subscription rights to its stockholders .
On June 6 , 1958 , General Motors submitted its objections to the Government's proposal .
It argued , inter alia , that a divestiture order would severely depress the market value of the stock of both General Motors and Du Pont , with consequent serious loss and hardship to hundreds of thousands of innocent investors , among them thousands of small trusts and charitable institutions ; ;
that the tremendous volume of General Motors stock hanging over the market for ten years would hamper the efforts of General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to raise equity capital ; ;
General Motors comprehensively contended that the Government plan would not be `` in the public interest '' as required by the mandate of this Court .
These plans , like Du Pont's , contained provisions for passing the vote on Du Pont's General Motors shares on to the ultimate stockholders of Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , except that officers and directors of the three companies , their spouses , and other people living in their households , as well as other specified persons , were to be totally disenfranchised .
Both plans also prohibited common directors , officers , or employees between Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , on the one hand , and General Motors on the other .
While it is easy enough to ridicule Hawkins' pronouncement in Pleas Of The Crown from a metaphysical point of view , the concept of the `` oneness '' of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage .
By making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship , the Court today continues in the path charted by the recent decision in Wyatt v. United States , 362 U.S. 525 , where the Court held that , under the circumstances of that case , a wife could be compelled to testify against her husband over her objection .
But in any event , I submit that the power to depose belongs to Congress , not to this Court .
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , was convicted of violating 12a of the Universal Military Training and Service Act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces .
He claims that he was denied due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment , because ( 1 ) at a hearing before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice , he was not permitted to rebut statements attributed to him by the local board , and ( 2 ) at the trial , he was denied the right to have the hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim .
Held : On the record in this case , the administrative procedures prescribed by the Act were fully complied with ; ;
Petitioner was not denied due process in the administrative proceedings , because the statement in question was in his file , to which he had access , and he had opportunities to rebut it both before the hearing officer of the Department of Justice and before the appeal board .
Petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer's notes and report , especially since he failed to show any particular need for them and he did have a copy of the Department of Justice's recommendation to the appeal board .
Petitioner was not entitled , either in the administrative hearing at the Department of Justice or at his trial , to inspect the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , since he was furnished a resume of it , did not challenge its accuracy , and showed no particular need for the original report .
Haydn C. Covington argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner .
Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for the United States .
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin , Assistant Attorney General Wilkey , Beatrice Rosenberg and J. F. Bishop .
Mr. Justice Clark delivered the opinion of the Court .
This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the armed services , in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act , 62 Stat. 604,622 , 50 , U.S.C. App. Aj 462 ( A ) .
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , contends that he was denied due process , both in the proceedings before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice and at trial .
He says that he was not permitted to rebut before the hearing officer statements attributed to him by the local board , and , further , that he was denied at trial the right to have the Department of Justice hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim -- all in violation of the Fifth Amendment .
The Court of Appeals affirmed .
We have concluded that petitioner's claims are controlled by the rationale of Gonzales v. United States , 348 U.S. 407 ( 1955 ) , and United States v. Nugent , 346 U.S. 1 ( 1953 ) , and therefore affirm the judgment .
Petitioner registered with Local Board No. 9 , Boulder , Colorado , on March 17 , 1952 .
His answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a minister of Jehovah's Witnesses , employed at night by a sugar producer .
On November 13 , 1952 , he was classified in Class 1-a .
On November 22 , 1952 , he wrote the Board , protesting this classification .
He was not prosecuted , however , and his case was subsequently reopened , in the light of Sicurella v. United States , 348 U.S. 385 ( 1955 ) .
There followed a customary Department of Justice hearing , at which petitioner appeared .
In his report to the Attorney General , the hearing officer suggested that the petitioner be exempt only from combatant training and service .
On March 21 , 1957 , however , the Department recommended approval of the 1-a classification .
Its ground for this recommendation was that , while petitioner claimed before the local board August 17 , 1956 ( as evidenced by its memorandum in his file of that date ) , that he was devoting 100 hours per month to actual preaching , the headquarters of the Jehovah's Witnesses reported that he was no longer doing so and , on the contrary , had relinquished both his Pioneer and Bible Student Servant positions .
We found in Gonzales v. United States , supra , that this was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be furnished a registrant .
We said there that it was necessary `` that a registrant be given an opportunity to rebut ( the Department's ) recommendation when it comes to the Appeal Board , the agency with the ultimate responsibility for classification '' .
As was said in Gonzales , `` it is the Appeal Board which renders the selective service determination considered ' final ' in the courts , not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact .
Estep v. United States , 327 U.S. 114 '' .
At his trial , petitioner sought to secure through subpoena duces tecum the longhand notes of the Department's hearing officer , Evensen , as well as his report thereon .
Petitioner also claimed at trial the right to inspect the original Federal Bureau of Investigation reports to the Department of Justice .
nor did he elaborate just what favorable evidence the Federal Bureau of Investigation reports might disclose .
Section 6(j) of the Act , as we have held , does require the Department's recommendation to be placed in a registrant's file .
Gonzales v. United States , supra .
Moreover , the hearing officer's report is but intradepartmental , is directed to the Attorney General and , of course , is not the recommendation of the Department .
It is not essentially different from a memorandum of an attorney in the Department of Justice , of which the Attorney General receives many , and to which he may give his approval or rejection .
Hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only conclusions of the Department on file with the Board .
But this is fully answered by United States v. Nugent , supra .
The recommendation of the Department -- as well as the decision of the appeal board -- was based entirely on the local board file , not on an FBI report .
With this enlarged role in mind , I should like to make a few suggestions : What we in the United States do or do not do will make a very large difference in what happens in the rest of the world .
It is the concern of the Department of State that the American people are safe and secure -- defense is not a monopoly concern of the Department of Defense .
It is also the concern of the Department of State that our trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous , profitable , and active -- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of concern only to the Department of Commerce .
Assistant Secretaries of State will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination of policies .
While observing the operations of our Government in various parts of the world , I have felt that in many situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor problems which spoiled our main effort .
the attitudes of a U.N. delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate housing in New York City , or of a foreign diplomat in similar circumstances in our Capital , can easily be directed against the United States and all that it stands for .
If the Department of State is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas .
It occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts which I expressed privately in recent years , in the hope of clearing up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy is all about and what it means , and of developing a certain compassion for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside Government .
The senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the Secretary or the President , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an American ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the United Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the President or the Secretary at a news conference , a speech by a Senator or Congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum .
His first thought is about the question itself : Is there a question here for American foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? ?
But he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy , well-established precedents , the commitments of the United States under international charters and treaties , basic statutes , and well-understood notions of the American people about how we are to conduct ourselves , in policy literature such as country papers and National Security Council papers accumulated in the Department .
Who should be consulted among his colleagues in the Department or other departments and agencies of the Government ? ?
Can the President or the Secretary act under existing authority , or will new legislation and new money be required ? ?
Is the matter one for the United Nations or some other international body ? ?
In the first place our business is foreign policy , and it is the business of the Presidential leadership and his appointees in the Department to consider the domestic political aspects of a problem .
Mr. Truman emphasized this point by saying , `` You fellows in the Department of State don't know much about domestic politics '' .
The Peace Corps should not pay the expenses of a wife or family , unless the wife is also accepted for full-time Peace Corps work on the same project .
There should be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service .
Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United States .
Perhaps existing Public Health Service , State Department and Armed Services medical facilities can be utilized .
In what part of the government should the Peace Corps be established ? ?
The idea of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people .
The Peace Corps , therefore , offers an opportunity to add a new dimension to our approach to the world -- an opportunity for the American people to think anew and start afresh in their participation in world development .
For this , the Peace Corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation .
Pending the reorganization of our foreign aid structure and program , the Peace Corps should be established as an agency in the Department of State .
When the aid operations are reorganized the Peace Corps should remain a semi-autonomous , functional unit .
Meanwhile , the Peace Corps could be physically located in ICA's facilities and depend on the State Department and ICA for administrative support and , when needed , program assistance .
In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas operations .
How and when should the Peace Corps be launched ? ?
The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer .
The Peace Corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost .
If launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the Peace Corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall .
The first year's projects should also be spread through several countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia .
How will the Peace Corps be received abroad ? ?
Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every newly developing nation , the readiness to receive such manpower , or to receive it from the United States will vary from country to country .
But there are indications that many developing nations will welcome Peace Corps volunteers , and that if the volunteers are well chosen , they will soon demonstrate their value and make many friends .
It is important , however , that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War but as a contribution to the world community .
In presenting it to other governments and to the United Nations , we could propose that every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the United Nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating committee .
In any case , our Peace Corps personnel should be offered as technician helpers in development projects of the U.N. and other international agencies .
The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership .
The Peace Corps offers an opportunity to bring home to the United States the problems of the world as well as an opportunity to meet urgent host country needs for trained manpower .
The already appropriated funds within the discretion of the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer's pilot programs of the Peace Corps .
If it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security Act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world .
Congress should then be asked to give the Peace Corps a firm legislative foundation for the next fiscal year .
Specifically , Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive contributions from American businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large .
An Advisory Council of outstanding public figures with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding .
Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace Program with the Peace Corps , so that foreign currencies accumulated by the sale of U.S. surplus food under P.L. 480 can be put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps personnel .
The extent to which participating bodies such as U. S. voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored .
But as the popular response suggests , the potentiality of the Peace Corps is very great .
It can also contribute to the education of America and to more intelligent American participation in the world .
With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before .
With colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward Peace Corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness .
The letters home , the talks later given by returning members of the Peace Corps , the influence on the lives of those who spend two or three years in hard work abroad -- all this may combine to provide a substantial popular base for responsible American policies toward the world .
The Peace Corps thus can add a new dimension to America's world policy -- one for which people here and abroad have long been waiting .
As you said in your State of the Union message , `` The problems are towering and unprecedented -- and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well '' .
To the Congress of the United States :
I recommend to the Congress the establishment of a permanent Peace Corps -- a pool of trained American men and women sent overseas by the U.S. Government or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower .
I have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis .
The temporary Peace Corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization .
In addition , by starting the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them in overseas positions by late fall .
This temporary Peace Corps is being established under existing authority in the Mutual Security Act and will be located in the Department of State .
To meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace Corps -- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations .
In 1960 one-quarter of the 92.5 million recreation visits to the National Forests and Grasslands were for the primary purpose of hunting and fishing .
Inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation with other Federal agencies and with the States in which National Forests and Grasslands are located , as a basis for orderly development of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs , including ( A ) big-game , gamebird , and small-game habitat surveys and investigations on the 186 million acres of National Forests and Grasslands , ( B ) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles of National Forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes and impoundments , and ( C ) participation in planning , inspection , and control phases of all habitat improvement , land and water use projects conducted on National Forest lands by States , other Federal agencies , and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife and be in harmony with other resource values .
The loss in growth of sawtimber because of damage by destructive agencies in the United States in 1952 was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet .
The long-range objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management of the National Forest System under principles of multiple use and high-level sustained yield of products and services .
In the 10-year period , it is proposed that insect and disease control on the National Forest System be stepped up to a level of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations that will substantially reduce the occurrence of large infestations toward the end of the initial period .
It is proposed that in 10 years all commercial timberlands , all critical watersheds , and other lands in the National Forest System developed or proposed for intensive use will be given protection from fire adequate to meet the fire situation in the worst years and under serious peak loads .
These areas comprise about half of the total area of rodent infestation on the National Forests .
The transportation system which serves the National Forests is a complex of highways and access roads and trails under various ownerships and jurisdictions .
This system is divided into a forest highway system , administered by the Secretary of Commerce , and a forest development road and trail system , administered by the Secretary of Agriculture .
Both of these systems are essential for the production , development , and use of the National Forests .
Because administration of the forest highway system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Commerce with maintenance provided by the States and counties , this Development Program for the National Forests does not include estimates of the funds needed to maintain the forest highway system nor to construct the additions to it that are needed .
It is estimated that about 70,000 miles of forest highways will eventually be needed to fully serve the National Forests .
These roads are largely of less than highway standards , and usually carry traffic which is related to use of the National Forests .
Construction and maintenance of this system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture .
It is estimated that about 542,250 miles of forest development roads , and 80,000 miles of trails , constitute the system that will eventually be needed to obtain the maximum practicable yield and use of the wood , water , forage , and wildlife and recreation resources of the National Forests on a continuing basis .
The existence of road systems permits an intensity of management and use for all National Forest purposes that is not otherwise possible .
Furthermore , roads that give access to National Forest timber are investments which pay their own way over a period of years .
The long-range objective of this Department is to provide and maintain a system of forest development roads and trails which will adequately service the National Forest System at the levels needed to meet expected needs and optimum production of products and services .
For the year 2000 this means servicing ( A ) the protection requirements of a watershed producing at least 200 million acre-feet of water each year , ( B ) recreation and wildlife resources used each year by 635 million visitors , ( C ) a timber resource supporting an annual cut of 21 billion board feet , and ( D ) 60 million acres of rangelands .
Approximately 40 percent of the value of the work on roads for access to timber which are planned for this period will be constructed by purchasers of National Forest timber , but paid for by the Government through adjustment of stumpage prices .
Within the units in the National Forest System the pattern of land ownership is quite irregular .
In some units , National Forest ownership is well blocked together .
Within exterior boundaries of National Forests and National Grasslands , there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-Federal ownership .
One consequence is the occurrence of occasional conflicts because private owners of some inholdings object to public programs of use on neighboring National Forest or other Federal land , or because such ownerships are developed for uses that are not compatible with use for the public of neighboring National Forest land .
And some , which are suitable for tree growing and for other National Forest purposes , are unmanaged or in need of expensive rehabilitation , and are contributing nothing to the economy ; ;
Lands in this last category are situated largely in the mountainous portions of the Eastern States .
The long-range objective is to bring about consolidation of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts for recognized National Forest programs such as recreation development , or which are a source of damage to lands in National Forests and National Grasslands .
I have requested the Secretary of Defense to reexamine the roles and missions of the reserve components in relation to those of the active forces and in the light of the changing requirements of modern warfare .
Last year the Congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength limitations on the Army Reserve .
Similar restrictions on the strength of the Army National Guard contained in the 1960 Department of Defense Appropriation Act should likewise be dropped .
I again proposed a reduction in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve -- from their present strengths of 400,000 and 300,000 , respectively , to 360,000 and 270,000 by the end of the fiscal year 1961 .
-- About 30% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs , including pay for active , reserve , and retired military personnel .
These increased costs are partially offset by a decrease of $56 million in expenditures for the reserve forces , largely because of the planned reduction in strength of the Army Reserve components during 1961 .
-- Expenditures for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the Armed Forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961 , which is $184 million more than in 1960 .
In total , these increases in operating costs outweigh the savings that result from declining programs and from economy measures , such as reduced numbers of units and installations , smaller inventories of major equipment , and improvements in the supply and distribution systems of the Armed Forces .
In the budget message for 1959 , and again for 1960 , I recommended immediate repeal of section 601 of the Act of September 28 , 1951 ( 65 Stat. 365 ) .
This section prevents the military departments and the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization from carrying out certain transactions involving real property unless they come into agreement with the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives .
As I have stated previously , the Attorney General has advised me that this section violates fundamental constitutional principles .
Accordingly , if it is not repealed by the Congress at its present session , I shall have no alternative thereafter but to direct the Secretary of Defense to disregard the section unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise .
Basic long-line communications in Alaska are now provided through Federal facilities operated by the Army , Air Force , and Federal Aviation Agency .
The growing communications needs of this new State can best be met , as they have in other States , through the operation and development of such facilities by private enterprise .
Legislation has already been proposed to authorize the sale of these Government-owned systems in Alaska , and its early enactment is desirable .
-- Approximately 45% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense are for procurement , research , development , and construction programs .
These contrasting trends in procurement reflect the anticipated changes in the composition and missions of our Armed Forces in the years ahead .
The Department of Defense appropriation acts for the past several years have contained a rider which limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain military supply items .
As I have repeatedly stated , this provision is much more restrictive than the general law , popularly known as the Buy American Act .
For example , the importance of the Regulus 2 , a very promising aerodynamic ship-to-surface missile designed to be launched by surfaced submarines , was greatly diminished by the successful acceleration of the much more advanced Polaris ballistic missile launched by submerged submarines .
Notable in this category are the Jupiter and Thor intermediate range ballistic missiles , which have been successfully developed , produced , and deployed , but the relative importance of which has diminished with the increasing availability of the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile .
-- The deterrent power of our Armed Forces comes from both their nuclear retaliatory capability and their capability to conduct other essential operations in any form of war .
The Strategic Air Command is the principal element of our long-range nuclear capability .
The first Atlas ICBM's are now operational , the first two Polaris submarines are expected to be operational this calendar year , and the first Titan ICBM's next year .
The Minuteman solid-fueled ICBM is planned to be operational about mid-1963 .
However , I am recommending that development work on the B-70 air-frame and engines be continued .
I am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version of the B-52 ( the B-52H with the new turbofan engine ) and procurement of the B-58 supersonic medium bomber , together with the supporting refueling tankers in each case .
Funds are also included in this budget to continue the equipping of the B-52 wings with the Hound Dog air-to-surface missile .
In the coming fiscal year additional quantities of Atlas , Titan , and Polaris missiles also will be procured .
The United States recognizes the desire of India to accumulate , as quickly as possible , a substantial part of the one million ton reserve stock of rice provided for in this Agreement to assist in stabilizing the internal markets for this commodity in India .
Under this Agreement the first annual review of rice availabilities will be made in August 1960 .
At that time consideration will be given to whether in the light of the United States supplies of rice available for Title 1 , disposal , India's production , consumption and stocks of food grains , other imports from the United States and countries friendly to the United States , India's storage capacity , and other related factors , any increase would be possible in the portion of the total rice programmed which is currently planned for procurement during the first year .
The two Governments agree that the issuance of purchase authorizations for wheat and rice providing for purchase after June 30 , 1961 , shall be dependent upon the determination by the United States Government that these commodities are in surplus supply and available under Title 1 , of the Act at that time .
The United States Government shall have the right to terminate the financing of further sales under this Agreement of any commodity if it determines at any time after June 30 , 1961 , that such action is necessitated by the existence of an international emergency .
The two Governments agree that the rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement will be used by the Government of the United States of America , in such manner and order of priority as the Government of the United States of America shall determine , for the following purposes in the amounts shown : ( A )
For United States expenditures under subsections ( A ) , ( B ) , ( D ) , ( E ) , ( F ) , ( H ) through ( R ) of Section 104 of the Act or under any of such subsections , the rupee equivalent of $200 million .
For grant to the Government of India under subsection ( E ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may from time to time be mutually agreed .
For loan to the Government of India under subsection ( G ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may be mutually agreed .
In the event that agreement is not reached on the use of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date of this Agreement , the Government of the United States of America may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by Section 104 of the Act .
In the event the total of rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement is different from the rupee equivalent of $1,276 million , the amounts available for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 , Article 2 , will be adjusted proportionately .
The deposit of rupees to the account of the Government of the United States of America in payment for the commodities and for ocean transportation costs financed by the Government of the United States of America ( except excess costs resulting from the requirement that United States flag vessels be used ) shall be made at the rate of exchange for United States dollars generally applicable to import transactions ( excluding imports granted a preferential rate ) in effect on the dates of dollar disbursement by United States banks , or by the Government of the United States of America , as provided in the purchase authorizations .
The Government of India agrees that it will take all possible measures to prevent the resale or transshipment to other countries or the use for other than domestic purposes ( except where such resale , transshipment or use is specifically approved by the Government of the United States of America ) , of the surplus agricultural commodities purchased pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement , and to assure that the purchase of such commodities does not result in increased availability of these or like commodities for export from India .
The two Governments agree that they will take reasonable precautions to assure that all sales or purchases of surplus agricultural commodities , pursuant to the Agreement will not displace usual marketings of the United States of America in these commodities , or unduly disrupt world prices of agricultural commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with friendly countries .
In carrying out this Agreement , the two Governments will seek to assure , to the extent practicable , conditions of commerce permitting private traders to function effectively and will use their best endeavors to develop and extend continuous market demand for agricultural commodities .
The Government of India agrees to furnish , upon request of the United States of America , information on the progress of the program , particularly with respect to the arrival and condition of commodities and the provisions for the maintenance of usual marketings , and information relating to exports of the same or like commodities .
The two Governments will , upon the request of either of them , consult regarding any matter relating to the application of this Agreement or to the operation of arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement .
Done at Washington in duplicate this fourth day of May 1960 .
For the government of the United States of America :
Dwight D. Eisenhower
S. K. Patil Excellency :
I have the honor to refer to the Agricultural Commodities Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of India ( hereinafter referred to as the Agreement ) and , with regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , to state that the understanding of the Government of the United States of America is as follows : 1 .
With respect to Article 2 , , Paragraph 1 ( A ) of the Agreement : ( 1 )
The Government of India will provide facilities for the conversions of the rupee equivalent of $4 million ( up to a maximum of $1 million per year ) accruing under the subject agreement for agricultural market development purposes into currencies other than United States dollars on request of the Government of the United States of America .
This facility is needed for the purpose of securing funds to finance agricultural market development activities of the Government of the United States in other countries .
The Government of the United States of America may utilize rupees in India to pay for goods and services , including international transportation needed in connection with market development and other agricultural projects and activities in India and other countries .
The rupee equivalent of $63.8 million , but not more than 5 percent of the currencies received under the Agreement will be used for loans to be made by the Export-Import Bank of Washington under Section 104 ( E ) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act , as amended ( hereinafter referred to as the Act ) , and for administrative expenses of the Export-Import Bank of Washington in India incident thereto .
Such loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act will be made to United States business firms and branches , subsidiaries , or affiliates of such firms in India for business development and trade expansion in India and to United States firms and to Indian firms for the establishment of facilities for aiding in the utilization , distribution , or otherwise increasing the consumption of and markets for United States agricultural products .
In the event the rupees set aside for loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act are not advanced within six years from the date of this Agreement because the Export-Import Bank of Washington has not approved loans or because proposed loans have not been mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Department of Economic Affairs of the Government of India , the Government of the United States of America may use the rupees for any purpose authorized by Section 104 of the Act .
Loans will be mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Government of India acting through the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance .
The Secretary , Department of Economic Affairs , or his designate , will act for the Government of India , and the President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington , or his designate , will act for the Export-Import Bank of Washington .
Upon receipt of an application which the Export-Import Bank is prepared to consider , the Export-Import Bank will inform the Department of Economic Affairs of the identity of the applicant , the nature of the proposed business , the amount of the proposed loan , and the general purposes for which the loan proceeds would be expended .
When the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application , it will so notify the Department of Economic Affairs and will indicate the interest rate and the repayment period which would be used under the proposed loan .
Within sixty days after the receipt of notice that the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application the Department of Economic Affairs will indicate to the Export-Import Bank whether or not the Department of Economic Affairs has any objection to the proposed loan .
Unless within the sixty-day period the Export-Import Bank has received such a communication from the Department of Economic Affairs it shall be understood that the Department of Economic Affairs has no objection to the proposed loan .
When the Export-Import Bank approves or declines the proposed loan , it will notify the Department of Economic Affairs .
With respect to Article 2 , , paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) : Uses of Section 104 ( E ) and Section 104 ( G ) rupees : The Government of India will use the amount of rupees granted or loaned to it by the United States pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) for projects to promote economic development with emphasis upon the agricultural sector including food reserve storage structures and facilities as may from time to time be agreed upon by the authorized representatives of the United States and the authorized representatives of the Government of India , in the following sectors : A .
Other economic development projects consistent with the purposes of Sections 104 ( E ) and 104 ( G ) of the Act .
The Government of India further agrees in cooperation with the Government of the United States , to coordinate the use of grant and loan funds provided for in paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , with such direct dollar assistance as may be made available by the Government of the United States of America , so that both sources of financing may be channeled to specific and clearly identifiable economic development programs and projects .
It is agreed that any goods delivered or services rendered after the date of this agreement for projects within categories A , B , and C under paragraph 2 above which may later be approved by the United States will be eligible for financing from currency granted or loaned to the Government of India .
With regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , the understanding of the Government of the United States of America , with respect to both paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , is as follows : ( 1 )
Local currency will be advanced or reimbursed to the Government of India for financing agreed projects under paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement upon the presentation of such documentation as the United States may specify .
The Government of India shall maintain or cause to be maintained books and records adequate to identify the goods and services financed for agreed projects pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement , to disclose the use thereof in the projects and to record the progress of the projects ( including the cost thereof ) .
The books and records with respect to each project shall be maintained for the duration of the project , or until the expiration of three years after final disbursement for the project has been made by the United States , whichever is later .
The Government of India shall enable the authorized representatives of the United States to observe and review agreed projects and the utilization of goods and services financed under the projects , and shall furnish to the United States all such information as it shall reasonably request concerning the above-mentioned matters and the expenditures related thereto .
With the existence of these many factors , some of them variable , it obviously has never been and is not now possible for the Commission to make assignments of AM stations on a case-to-case basis which will insure against any interference in any circumstances .
By this standard , it is determined that where two stations operating on the same frequency are involved , objectionable interference from station A exists at any point within the service area of station B where station A's signal is of an intensity one-twentieth or more of the strength of station B's signal at that point .
Some 45 frequencies are assigned for use primarily by dominant Class 1 , -- A or Class 1 , -- B clear-channel stations , designed to operate with adequate power and to provide service -- both groundwave and ( at night ) skywave -- over large areas and at great distances , being protected against interference to the degree necessary to achieve this objective .
With respect to skywave service rendered at night , class 1 , -- A stations are the only stations permitted to operate in the United States on clear channels specified for class 1 , -- A operation , and so render skywave service free from cochannel interference whereever they may be received ; ;
Therefore , under our longstanding allocation rules , on some of these channels no station other than the dominant ( class 1 ) -- A ) station is permitted to operate at night , so that the 1 , -- A station can render service , interference free , wherever it can be received .
Essentially , the question presented for decision in the present Daytime Skywave proceeding is whether our decision ( in 1938-1939 ) to assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset , is sound as a basis for AM allocations , or whether , in the light of later developments and new understanding , skywave transmission is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account , and some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these hours .
If you elect to use the Standard Deduction or the Tax Table , and later find you should have itemized your deductions , you may do so by filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim for refund .
See You May Claim A Refund , Page 135 .
The same is true if you have itemized your deductions and later decide you should have used the Standard Deduction or Tax Table .
If the last day ( due date ) for performing any act for tax purposes , such as filing a return or making a tax payment , etc. , falls on Saturday , Sunday , or a legal holiday , you may perform that act on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday , Sunday , or legal holiday .
Since April 15 , 1962 , is on Sunday your return for the calendar year 1961 will be timely filed if it is filed on or before Monday , April 16 , 1962 .
If you were required to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961 , it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , if you file your income tax return Form 1040 , and pay your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by January 31 , 1962 .
The filing of an original or amended declaration , otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , is also waived , if you file your Form 1040 for 1961 and pay the full tax by January 31 , 1962 .
Farmers , for these purposes , have until February 15 , 1962 , to file Form 1040 and pay the tax in full for the calendar year 1961 .
Nonresident aliens living in Canada or Mexico who earn wages in the United States may be subject to withholding of tax on their wages , the same as if they were citizens of the United States .
Their United States tax returns are due April 16 , 1962 .
However , if their United States income is not subject to the withholding of tax on wages , their returns are due June 15 , 1962 , if they use a calendar year , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of their fiscal year .
Nonresident aliens in Puerto Rico .
If you are a nonresident alien and a resident of Puerto Rico , your return is also due June 15 , 1962 , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of your fiscal year .
Suppose John Jones , who , for 1960 , filed on the basis of a calendar year , died June 20 , 1961 .
His return for the period January 1 to June 20 , 1961 , is due April 16 , 1962 .
You may apply for such an extension by filing Form 2688 , Application For Extension Of Time To File , with the District Director of Internal Revenue for your district , or you may make your application in a letter .
See also Interest On Unpaid Taxes , below .
Citizens of the United States who , on April 15 , are not in the United States or Puerto Rico , are allowed an extension of time until June 15 for filing the return for the preceding calendar year .
Taxpayers residing or traveling in Alaska are also allowed this extension of time for filing , but those residing or traveling in Hawaii are not allowed this automatic extension .
Military or Naval Personnel on duty in Alaska or outside the United States and Puerto Rico are also allowed this automatic extension of time for filing their returns .
You must attach a statement to your return , if you take advantage of this automatic extension , showing that you were in Alaska or were outside the United States or Puerto Rico on April 15 or other due date .
If your computation on Form 1040 or Form 1040A shows you owe additional tax , it should be remitted with your return unless you owe less than $1 , in which case it is forgiven .
All checks and money orders should be made payable to Internal Revenue Service .
Send your return to the Director of Internal Revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence or principal place of business .
If you have neither a legal residence nor a principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district , your return should be filed with the District Director of Internal Revenue , Baltimore 2 , Md. .
If your principal place of abode for the tax year is outside the United States ( including Alaska and Hawaii ) , Puerto Rico , or the Virgin Islands and you have no legal residence or principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district in the United States , you should file your return with the Office of International Operations , Internal Revenue Service , Washington 25 , D.C. .
The deductions allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income put all taxpayers on a comparable basis .
Some deductions are subtracted from Gross Income to determine Adjusted Gross Income .
Other deductions are subtracted only from Adjusted Gross Income in arriving at Taxable Income .
If you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you subtract , in computing Adjusted Gross Income , ordinary and necessary expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property .
Sick pay , if included in your Gross Income , is deducted in arriving at Adjusted Gross Income .
If your sick pay is not included in your Gross Income , you may not deduct it .
Deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable in determining your Adjusted Gross Income .
You also deduct 50% of the excess of net long-term capital gains over net short-term capital losses in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
Certain other deductions are not allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
These deductions may not be claimed if you elect to use the Standard Deduction or Tax Table .
The central group of the Foundation's advisors are , at any one period of time , the members of our Advisory Board , consisting , now , of thirty-six men and women .
They are chosen by the Foundation's Board of Trustees on the bases of their own first-rate accomplishments in their different fields of scholarship and the arts .
Their locations in all parts of the United States , and their locations in the several kinds of educational and research institutions that are the principal homes of our intellectual and artistic strengths also are factors in the Trustees' minds .
For this concept of an Advisory Board , ancillary to the Board of Trustees , we are indebted to the late President of Harvard University , A. Lawrence Lowell , a master of the subject of the structure of cultural institutions and their administration .
That we had the wit and wisdom to adopt Mr. Lowell's concept and make it the base for our processes of selection is one reason why our selections have been , it may be said truly , pretty uniformly good .
For , in accordance with Mr. Lowell's concept of an advisory board , our selections are made by experienced selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes and our choices .
And lest we should become too consistent , in the sense of becoming heedless of new fields of scholarship and new points of view in the arts , the Foundation's Board of Trustees maintains a trickle -- not a flow ! !
Two committees of members of the Advisory Board constitute the committees of selection -- one for the selection of Fellows from Canada , the United States , and the English-speaking Caribbean area and one for the selection of Fellows from the Latin American republics and the Republic of the Philippines .
To the members of our Advisory Board , and most specially to its members who constitute our committees of selection , the Foundation is indebted for its successes of choice of Fellows .
and quality of advice , added to devotion to the Foundation's purposes and ideals , we do get from our Advisory Board in measures so full that they can be appreciated only by those of us who work here every day .
But the facts about our Advisory Board and its members' duties are only one of several sets of facts about the quest for advice , both reliable and imaginative , on which to base our selections of Fellows .
For example , the interest of past members of the Foundation's Advisory Board remains such that they place their knowledge and judgments at our disposal much as they had done when they were , formally , members of that Board .
During the biennium reviewed in this Report , our Board of Trustees named able men , younger than the rest of us , to the Board and to top management to insure future continuance of the first-class administration of the Foundation's affairs :
Dr. James Brown Fisk , physicist , President of the Bell Telephone Laboratories , was elected to the Board of Trustees .
He is a member both of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Philosophical Society ; ;
Dr. Gordon N. Ray , Provost , Vice-President and Professor of English in the University of Illinois , was appointed Associate Secretary General .
The Trustees of the Foundation appointed Dr. Ray to that position with the stated expectation that he would succeed the present Secretary General upon the latter's eventual retirement .
Dr. Ray is a Fellow of the Foundation -- appointed thrice to assist his studies of William Makepeace Thackeray and of H. G. Wells -- and , before his appointment to the Foundation's executive staff , had been given our highest scholarly accolade , appointment to the Advisory Board .
Referring further to the Foundation's officers , Dr. James F. Mathias , for eleven years our discerning colleague as Associate Secretary , was promoted to be Secretary .
Also appointed to the Foundation's staff , as Assistant Secretary , is Mr. J. Kellum Smith , Jr. .
Mr. Smith , like the present Secretary General , is a lawyer ; ;
The present Secretary General has been the Foundation's principal administrative officer continuously since the Foundation's establishment thirty-five years ago .
Of this , examples are legion : Pericles speaking his funeral oration in Ancient Greece's extremity after Thermopylae and making it a testament of freedom ; ;
Jefferson writing the Declaration of Independence amid the catastrophes of revolution ; ;
Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mount , close to his ultimate sacrifice ; ;
Keats's words -- in the days of the Spanish Armada's threats ; ;
Isaac Newton , at the age of twenty-three , industriously calculating logarithms `` to two and fifty places '' during the great plague year in England , 1665 ; ;
Winston Churchill's Olympian , optimistic and resolute sayings when Britain stood alone against the armed forces of tyranny less than twenty years ago ; ;
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit , as the Roman poet , Virgil , declared with much more historical sense than most writers of today .
For example , out of the social evils of the English industrial revolution came the novels of Charles Dickens ; ;
The solutions were not arrived at by any theoreticians of the Karl Marx stripe but by men of government -- lawyers , most of them -- and men of business .
These were educated men , who , as Mr. Justice Holmes was fond of saying , formed their inductions out of experience under the burden of responsibility .
Nevertheless , they made naught of Marx's prophecy that capitalism would never pay the `` workers '' -- to use Marx's word -- more than a subsistence wage , with the consequence that increased productivity must inevitably find its way into the capitalists' pockets with the result , in turn , that the gap between the rich and the poor would irrevocably widen and the misery of the poor increase .
Sir Henry Sumner Maine , a hundred years before Communism was a force to be reckoned with , wrote his brilliant legal generalization , that `` the progress of society is from status to contract '' .
And lest anybody think that considerations such as these are not germane in a foundation report , let me enlighten them with the truths that , under Communism there would have been no capital with which to endow the Foundation , and that there would not be that individual freedom within which the Fellows might proceed , untrammeled in every way , toward their discoveries , their creative efforts for the good of mankind .
Indeed , if pressed , we would say what the late Robert Henri , American painter , said to a pupil , `` Anything will do for a subject : it's what you do with it that counts '' .
When the Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world .
With its history standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution , Brown & Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument to the mechanical foresight of its founder , Joseph R. Brown , and a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology .
Joseph R. Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of New England between 1810 and 1830 .
He was early exposed to the mechanical world , and in his youth often helped his father , David Brown , master clock and watchmaker , as he plied his trade .
At the age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of Walcott & Harris in Valley Falls , Rhode Island , and following two or three other jobs in quick succession after graduation , he went into business for himself in 1831 , making lathes and small tools .
This enterprise led to a father-and-son combination beginning in 1833 , under the name D. Brown & Son , a business which eventually grew into the modern corporation we now call Brown & Sharpe .
In 1838 , a devastating fire gutted their small shop and soon thereafter David Brown moved west to Illinois , settling on a land grant in his declining years .
But his business also grew , and we are told that Mr. Brown found it increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire .
It must have been with some pleasure and relief that on September 12 , 1848 , Joseph Brown made the momentous entry in his job book , in his characteristically cryptic style , `` Lucian Sharpe came to work for me this day as an apprentice '' .
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ;
the company became `` J. R. Brown & Sharpe '' , and entered into a new and important period of its development .
Mr. Sharpe's arrival in the business did indeed provide what Mr. Brown had most coveted -- time for `` tinkering '' , and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that time .
Throughout their careers , both Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades .
Several efforts were made in this direction , and though not all of them survive to this day , the Brown & Sharpe wire gage system was eventually adopted as the American standard and is still in common use today .
In 1858 , the partnership began manufacturing the Willcox & Gibbs sewing machine .
As the story goes , Mr. Gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine .
When he showed this model as his `` solution '' as to how the Howe sewing machine operated , he was told he was `` wrong '' , and discovered to his amazement that the Howe Machine , which was unknown to him in detail , used two threads while the one that he had perfected used only one .
Thus was invented the single thread sewing machine , which Mr. Gibbs in partnership with Mr. Willcox decided to bring to Brown & Sharpe with the proposal that the small company undertake its manufacture .
The new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J. R. Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment .
The turret screw machine , now known as the Brown & Sharpe hand screw machine , takes its ancestry directly from Mr. Brown's efforts to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing machine .
In 1861 , Mr. Brown's attention was called to yet another basic production problem -- the manufacture of twist drills .
At that time , during the Civil War , Union muskets were being manufactured in Providence and the drills to drill them were being hand-filed with rattail files .
This process neither satisfied the urgent production schedules nor Mr. Brown's imagination of the possibilities in the situation .
The child of this problem was Mr. Brown's famous Serial No. 1 Universal Milling Machine , the archtype from which is descended today's universal knee-type milling machine used throughout the world .
The original machine , bearing its famous serial number , is still on exhibition at the Brown & Sharpe Precision Center in Providence .
During the Civil War period Mr. Brown also invented the Brown & Sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics .
Mr. Brown's invention achieved this and , as a byproduct , formed the cornerstone of Brown & Sharpe's position of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until the 1920's when superceded by other methods .
The micrometer caliper , as a common workshop tool , also owes much to J. R. Brown .
Although Mr. Brown was not himself its inventor ( it was a French idea ) , it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance of mass producing this basic tool for general use .
So it was that when Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe first saw the French tool on exhibition in Paris in 1868 , they brought a sample with them to the United States and started Brown & Sharpe in yet another field where it retains its leadership to this day .
The final achievement of Mr. Brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine .
That achievement was his creation of the universal grinding machine , which made its appearance in 1876 at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition .
Along with J. R. Brown's other major developments , the universal grinding machine was profoundly influential in setting the course of Brown & Sharpe for many years to come .
Following Mr. Brown's death , there came forward in the Brown & Sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company .
One such man was Samuel Darling .
As head of the firm Darling & Swartz , Mr. Darling began by challenging Brown & Sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850's and early 60's .
In 1868 , however , a truce was called between the companies , and the partnership of Darling , Brown & Sharpe was formed .
Between that year and the buying out of Mr. Darling's interest in 1892 , a large portion of the company's precision tool business was carried out under the name of Darling , Brown & Sharpe , and to this day many old precision tools are in use still bearing that famous trademark .
Perhaps the outstanding standard bearer of Mr. Brown's tradition for accuracy was Mr. Oscar J. Beale , whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of Mr. Brown , and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown & Sharpe to manufacture gages , and therefore its products , with an accuracy exceeding anything then available elsewhere in the world .
Also important on the Brown & Sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was Mr. Richmond Viall , Works Superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 .
He was an ardent champion of the Brown & Sharpe Apprentice Program and personal counselor to countless able men who first developed their industrial talents with the company .
In one sense it can be said that one of the most important Brown & Sharpe products over the years has been the men who began work with the company and subsequently came to places of industrial eminence throughout the nation and even abroad .
Commencing with the death of Lucian Sharpe in 1899 , the name of Henry D. Sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company .
During his presidency , the company's physical plant was enormously expanded , and the length and breadth of the Brown & Sharpe machine tool line became the greatest in the world .
During the early part of this century , the Brown & Sharpe works in Providence were unchallenged as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world .
During these years the company's product line followed the basic tenets laid down by Mr. Brown .
In 1951 , Henry D. Sharpe , Jr. succeeded his father and continued the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business .
The Machine Tool Division is currently producing Brown & Sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines .
Recently added is the Brown & Sharpe turret drilling machine which introduces the company to an entirely new field of tool development .
In the Industrial Products Division , the company manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection equipment , machinists' tools -- including micrometers , Vernier calipers , and accessories .
In the Cutting Tool Division , the principal products include a wide variety of high speed steel milling cutters , end mills and saws .
In connection with our continuing development of new and more efficient mill machinery , a sounder U. S. income tax policy on depreciation of production equipment , enabling the mills to charge off the cost of new machines on a more realistic basis , could , if adopted , have favorable effects on Leesona's business in the next few years .
Such a depreciation policy would also , we believe , prove a very important factor in strengthening the competitive position of the U. S. textile and other industries , thus helping to strengthen the position of the dollar in foreign exchange .
But more important , we believe , it must concentrate on the development of entirely new concepts in textile processing as do the Unifil loom winder and our more recent Uniconer automatic coning machine .
Major activity at Providence in 1961 will involve the scheduled completion of tooling for production of the Uniconer automatic coning machine .
Our Patterson Moos Research Division has made further very encouraging progress in development of fuel cells .
The cooperation of our exclusive American licensee , Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Division of United Aircraft Corporation , has been important in this work .
In addition to its major effort on fuel cells , Patterson Moos Research Division is continuing to carry on research in other fields , both under contract for the Defense Department , other government agencies and for our own account .
PMR is currently supplying components vital to the Titan and Minuteman programs .
We have recently entered into an agreement with Compagnie Generale De Telegraphie Sans Fil ( CSF ) of France for the exclusive exchange of technical information on thermoelectric materials .
The agreement gives us rights for manufacturing and marketing of such materials in the United States .
A project for the Air Force has been completed in which the NAIR infrared detecting device was developed for area monitoring of noxious or dangerous gases .
Early in August we broke ground for a new $3,500,000 plant in Warwick , Rhode Island , which will house our textile and coil winding machinery operations .
All operations now carried on at our plant at Cranston will be transferred to Warwick .
A major consideration in the choice of the Warwick site , four miles from Cranston , was the fact that it permits retention of our present trained and highly skilled work force .
During the year our British subsidiary , Leesona-Holt , Limited , expanded its plant in Darwen , England , and added machine tool capacity .
The operations of its other plant in Rochdale and Leesona's former operations in Manchester were transferred to a recently acquired plant in the adjoining town of Heywood .
The area available at Heywood is approximately three times the size of the former Rochdale and Manchester locations .
It will be transfered on completion to The Industrial Foundation of Rhode Island , a non-profit organization , which will reimburse us for the cost of construction .
Interim financing of construction costs is provided by a short term loan from The Chase Manhattan Bank .
In addition to expenditures on the Warwick plant , we have invested approximately $1,961,000 for machinery and equipment at Cranston , and for new machinery , plant and equipment at Leesona-Holt , Limited .
In accordance with the two-year contract signed in May , 1959 , with the International Association of Machinists , AFL-CIO , wages of hourly employees were increased by 4% in May , 1960 , and pay levels for non-exempt salaried employees were increased proportionately .
In addition , Blue Cross coverage for all employees and their dependents was extended to provide the full cost of semi-private hospital accommodations .
During the pension year ended December 31 , 1960 , 23 employees retired , making a total of 171 currently retired under the Company's pension plan .
At December 13 , 1960 the fund held by the Industrial National Bank of Providence , as trustee for payment of past and future service pensions to qualified members of the plan , totaled $2,412,616 .
The Carleton Service Fund provides the financial support for this program .
Extensive facilities for group performance are provided by maintaining , under skilled direction , the Choir , the Orchestra , the Band , the Glee Club , and smaller ensembles of wind and string players .
Orchestra , Band , and Choir have auditions during the week preceding the first day of classes .
The Glee Club is open to all students and faculty with no auditions necessary for membership .
Student musical organizations are the Knights of Carleton and the Overtones ( men's vocal groups ) , and the Keynotes ( a women's singing group ) .
Courses are offered in ethics , the philosophy and history of religion , Christian thought and history , and the Bible .
A college service of worship is held each Sunday morning at eleven o'clock in the Chapel .
The sermons are given by the College Chaplain , by members of the faculty , or by guest preachers .
Music is furnished by the Carleton College Choir .
These services at which attendance is voluntary are led by the Chaplain , by the President of the College , by selected faculty members , students , and visitors .
A Sunday evening program provides theological lectures , music , drama , and films related to the issues of the Judeo-Christian tradition .
Attendance is required at the College Service of Worship or at the Sunday Evening Program or at any regularly organized service of public worship .
Attendance at the Chapel Service is voluntary .
Included are the following : Baptist Student Movement , Canterbury Club ( Episcopal ) , Christian Science Organization , Friends' Meeting for Worship , Hillel ( Jewish ) , Liberal Religious Fellowship , Lutheran Student Association , Newman Club ( Roman Catholic ) , Presbyterian Student Fellowship , United Student Fellowship ( Congregational-Baptist ) , and Wesley Fellowship ( Methodist ) .
Student religious organizations are co-ordinated under the Religious Activities Committee , a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association .
The Northfield churches include the following : Alliance , Congregational-Baptist , Episcopal , Lutheran ( Norwegian , Danish , Missouri Synod , and Bethel ) , Methodist , Moravian , Pentecostal , and Roman Catholic .
Dramatic activity at the College is organized and carried on by The Carleton Players , which is to say by all students who are so inclined to advance these aims .
For the 1960-1961 season , The Carleton Players have announced Blood Wedding by Federico Garcia Lorca , The Knight Of The Burning Pestle by Beaumont and Fletcher and A Moon For The Misbegotten by Eugene O'Neill , with a pre-season production of The Glass Menagerie by Tennessee Williams .
These extra-curricular activities are conducted under supervision of the Director of the Student Workshop .
The group meets once a week in the Boliou Student Workshop .
They are assisted and advised by members of the Art Department .
the Athletic program at Carleton is considered an integral part of the activities of the College and operates under the same budgetary procedure and controls as the academic work .
The maintenance of Midwest Conference eligibility standards
Carleton is a member of the Midwest Collegiate Athletic Conference and abides by its eligibility rules .
A student who while in attendance at Carleton College participates in an athletic contest during the school year , other than that sponsored by the College , shall be permanently ineligible to participate in intercollegiate athletics at Carleton College and will also face permanent suspension from the institution .
The `` C '' club is composed of the men of the College who have won an official letter in Carleton athletics .
The purpose of the Club is to promote better athletic teams at Carleton and to increase interest in them among the student body .
The Soccer Club was organized by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport .
Women's Recreation Association .
This Association , organized in 1920 , is affiliated with the Athletic Federation of College Women .
Active groups sponsored by the organization include the Saddle Club , Orchesis , Golf Club , Tennis Club , and Dolphins .
The Saddle Club , open to students proficient in horsemanship , presents the Annual Spring Riding Exhibition , and during the year it offers speakers , movies , breakfast rides , and trips to broaden their knowledge of the sport .
Orchesis , for students interested in the modern dance , contributes to the May Fete and offers earlier in the year a modern dance demonstration .
Tennis Club participates in a dual tennis tournament with the University of Minnesota each fall , and also sponsors a two-day state invitational tennis meet at Carleton in May .
The Dolphins present a three-night water show the week of the May Fete .
Under the auspices of the Women's Recreation Association , interclass competition is organized in badminton , basketball , field hockey , golf , tennis , and swimming .
The Association participates in the winter sports carnival and sponsors several Play Days with St. Olaf and other nearby colleges .
With the co-operation of the Department of Physical Education for Men , the Women's Recreation Association arranges mixed tournaments in tennis and golf in the fall and spring .
The Bulletin , in five issues : The Report Of The President in August ; ;
The Alumni Fund Report in September ; ;
the Annual Catalog in March ; ;
an Alumni Reunion Bulletin in April ; ;
The College also publishes each year The Report Of The Treasurer and a monthly newsletter entitled Carleton College Comments .
In co-operation with the Alumni Association of Carleton College , an alumni magazine , The Voice Of The Carleton Alumni , is edited and mailed seven times a year by the College's Publications Office and the Alumni Office .
These publications may be secured as follows : The Annual Catalog from the Director of Admissions and other issues from the Publications Office .
In January , 1960 , the first issue of The Carleton Miscellany , a quarterly literary magazine , was published by the College .
The magazine , edited by members of the Carleton Department of English , includes contributions by authors from both within and beyond the Carleton community .
The Carletonian , the college newspaper , is edited by students and published by the College under the supervision of the Publications Board .
The Publications Board holds annual competitive examinations for places on the editorial and business staffs .
The Publications Board receives applications for the positions of editor and business manager and makes the appointments in the spring previous to the year of publication .
Members of The Algol staff are nominated by the editor and business manager and appointed by the Publications Board .
The editor and business manager of Manuscript are appointed by the Publications Board .
the Carleton Student Association includes all students in college and is intended `` to work for the betterment of Carleton College by providing student government and student participation with the college administration in the formulation and execution of policies which pertain to student life and activities '' .
The Carleton Social Co-operative is a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association .
Week-end activities for the entire campus are planned by the Co-op Board .
Sales of TV sets at retail ran ahead of the like months of 1959 through July ; ;
I look for TV sales and production to be approximately equal at 5.7 million sets for the year , but I look for some decline in radios from the high rate in 1961 to more nearly the 1959 level of 15.0 - 15.5 million sets .
Among the items scheduled for acceleration in the near future are the Polaris and B70 programs , strengthening of the airborne alert system of the Strategic Air Command , and improved battlefield surveillance systems .
Research and development expenditures connected with the reconnaissance satellite SAMOS and the future development of ballistic missile defense systems such as Nike-Zeus are expected to increase substantially .
it has been estimated that spending by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will rise from less than $500 million in fiscal 1960 to more than $2 billion by 1967 , and that the electronic industry's share of these expenditures will be closer to 50% than the current 20% .
As I have indicated above , I base this feeling on a belief that current weakness in the market for consumer durable goods may continue through the early months of the year , but will give way to a sufficiently strong recovery later on to bring the full-year figures close to those of 1960 ; ;
The appointment of Gilbert B. Devey as General Manager of VecTrol Engineering , Inc. , of Stamford , Connecticut , a leading manufacturer of thyratron and silicon controlled rectifier electrical controls , has been announced by David B. Peck , Vice President , Special Products .
Mr. Devey will be responsible for the commercial expansion of VecTrol's line of electronic and electrical power control components as furnished to end equipment manufacturers , working closely with Walter J. Brown , President and Director of Engineering of the recently acquired Sprague subsidiary .
Mr. Brown will at the same time undertake expansion of VecTrol's custom design program for electronic control users with a greatly increased engineering staff .
Mr. Devey's new responsibilities are in addition to those of his present post as marketing manager of Sprague's Special Products Group , which manufactures a wide line of digital electronic components , packaged component assemblies , and high temperature magnet wires .
Mr. Devey first came to Sprague in 1953 as a Product Specialist in the Field Engineering Department , coming from the Office of Naval Research in Washington , D. C. , where he was an electronic scientist engaged in undersea warfare studies .
During World War 2 , , he was a lieutenant commander in the United States Navy .
Mr. Devey is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and attended the United States Naval Academy Post-Graduate School specializing in electronic engineering .
He was named Product Manager of the Special Products Division of Sprague when it was founded in 1958 , and was later promoted to his present post .
Mr. Devey is a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers , and is chairman of the Electronic Industries Association Committee on Printed and Modular Components .
Mr. Brown , well-known , English-born inventor , prior to founding VecTrol was at various times section leader in radio research at Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Co. , Ltd. ; ;
chief engineer of the radio set division of Electric and Musical Industries , Ltd. , the largest electronic equipment manufacturer in Great Britain ; ;
director of engineering at Philco of Great Britain , Ltd. , and vice president in charge of production and assistant to the president at The Brush Development Co. , Cleveland , Ohio .
He has a Bachelor of Science from the University of Manchester , England .
He is a fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers , and a senior member of the Institute of Radio Engineers .
He is a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers , London , a registered professional engineer in Connecticut and Ohio , and a chartered electrical engineer in Great Britain .
The promotion of Robert E. Swift to the position of Assistant Manager of the Interference Control Field Service Department was announced early in December by Frederick S. Scarborough , Manager of Interference Control Field Service .
Radio observations of Venus and Jupiter have already supplied unexpected experimental data on the physical conditions of these planets .
Of the remaining planets , only Mars and Saturn have been observed as radio sources , and not very much information is available .
The study of the radio emission of the moon and planets began with the detection of the thermal radiation of the moon at 1.25-cm wave length by Dicke and Beringer ( 1946 ) .
This was followed by a comprehensive series of observations of the 1.25-cm emission of the moon over three lunar cycles by Piddington and Minnett ( 1949 ) .
that the amplitude of the variation was considerably less than the amplitude of the variation in the infrared emission as measured by Pettit and Nicholson ( 1930 ) and Pettit ( 1935 ) ; ;
and that the maximum of the radio emission came about 3-1/2 days after Full Moon , which is again in contrast to the infrared emission , which reaches its maximum at Full Moon .
The radio emission of a planet was first detected in 1955 , when Burke and Franklin ( 1955 ) identified the origin of interference-like radio noise on their records at about 15 meters wave length as emission from Jupiter .
This sporadic type of planetary radiation is discussed by Burke ( chap. 13 ) and Gallet ( chap. 14 ) .
Steady radiation which was presumably of thermal origin was observed from Venus at 3.15 and 9.4 cm , and from Mars and Jupiter at 3.15 cm in 1956 ( Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker , 1958 , A , B , C ) , and from Saturn at 3.75 cm in 1957 ( Drake and Ewen , 1958 ) .
In the relatively short time since these early observations , Venus has been observed at additional wave lengths in the range from 0.8 to 10.2 cm , and Jupiter has been observed over the wave-length range from 3.03 to 68 Aj .
The measurements made with the NRL 50-foot reflector , which is altitude-azimuth-mounted , would have shown a systematic change with local hour angle in the measured intensities of Venus and Jupiter if a substantial part of the radiation had been linearly polarized .
Recent interferometer measurements ( Radhakrishnan and Roberts , 1960 ) have shown the 960-mc emission of Jupiter to be partially polarized and to originate in a region of larger diameter than the visible disk .
Very recently , observations have been made at 8-mm wave length with a reflector 22 meters in diameter with a resultant beam width of only about 2' ( Amenitskii , Noskova , and Salomonovich , 1960 ) .
The observations of Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker at 3.15 cm and of Sloanaker at 10.3 cm have not previously been published and will be briefly described .
Measurements at 3.15 cm were obtained on 11 days spread over the interval May 3 to June 19 , 1956 , using the 50-foot reflector at the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory in Washington .
The antenna patterns and the power gain at the peak of the beam were both measured ( Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker , 1958 ) , so that the absolute power sensitivity of the antenna beam over the solid angle of the moon was known .
The result of the observations is Af where the phase angle , Q , is measured in degrees from new moon and the probable errors include absolute as well as relative errors .
This result is plotted along with the 8.6-mm observations of Gibson ( 1958 ) in figure 1 , A .
The variation in the 3-cm emission of the moon during a lunation is very much less than the variation in the 8.6-mm emission , as would be expected from the explanation of Piddington and Minnett ( 1949 ) .
The 10.3-cm observation of Sloanaker was made on May 20 , 1958 , using the 84-foot reflector at the Maryland Point Observatory of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory .
The dependence of the arc voltage upon the mass flow velocity of the transpirating gas was investigated for various arc lengths and currents between 100 Amp and 200 Aj .
This phenomenon has been experimentally investigated in detail by Maecker ( Ref. 1 ) .
The third method was , to our knowledge , successfully applied for the first time by C. Sheer and co-workers ( Ref. 2 ) .
The graphite was National Carbon NC 60 , which has a porosity of 50% and an average pore size of 30 .
Two pyrometers shown in figure 1 and 2 ( Pyrometer Instrument Co. Model 95 ) served for simultaneous measurement of the anode surface temperature and the temperature distribution along the anode holder .
The power source was a commercial D. C. rectifier .
At 100 Amp the 360 cycle ripple was less than 0.5 V ( peak to peak ) with a resistive load .
The argon flow through the porous anode was varied systematically between Af and Af .
Assuming thermal equilibrium between the anode surface and the transpiring argon , the gas enthalpy rise through the anode was calculated according to the relation Af whereby the specific heat of argon was taken as Af .
The Af values are listed in Table 1 together with the measured surface temperatures and arc voltages .
It was calculated from the temperature gradient Af at Af inch as Af .
The temperature distribution of figure 4 gives Af for all blowing rates , assuming Af .
The radiation loss from the anode surface was computed according to Af where Af is the mean of the fourth powers of the temperatures Af and Af calculated analogously to equation ( 1 ) .
In this test a Af tape was pulled between the blocks with a motor and pulley at a rate of Af with a clearance of 0.002'' '' on each side of the tape .
Consider a shear field with a height of H and a cross-sectional area of A opposed by a manometer with a height of H ( referred to the same base as H ) and a cross-sectional area of A .
If Af is the change per unit volume in Gibbs function caused by the shear field at constant P and T , and **yr is the density of the fluid , then the total potential energy of the system above the reference height is Af .
The total volume of the system above the reference height is Af , and H can be eliminated to obtain an equation for the total potential energy of the system in terms of H .
The concept of the strain energy as a Gibbs function difference Af and exerting a force normal to the shearing face is compatible with the information obtained from optical birefringence studies of fluids undergoing shear .
According to Philippoff , the recoverable shear S is given by Af where **yc is the angle of extinction .
The relative forces can be calculated from the various radii of curvature if we assume : ( A ) The surface tension is uniform on the surface of the drop .
Just as the pressure exerted by surface tension in a spherical drop is Af and the pressure exerted by surface tension on a cylindrical shape is Af , the pressure exerted by any curved surface is Af , where **yg is the interfacial tension and Af and Af are the two radii of curvature .
This formula is given by Rumscheidt and Mason .
If A is the major axis of an ellipsoid and B and C are the other two axes , the radius of curvature in the ab plane at the end of the axis Af , and the difference in pressure along the A and B axes is Af .
However , there are photographs of suspended drops of cyclohexanol phthalate ( viscosity 155 poises ) suspended in corn syrup of 71 poises in a paper by Mason and Bartok .
Measurements on the photograph in this paper give Af at the maximum rate of shear of Af .
If it is assumed that the formula given by Lodge of cosec Af applies , the pressure difference along the major axes can be calculated from the angle of inclination of the major axis , and from this the interfacial tension can be calculated .
This means that work equals Q which in turn equals Af .
The lines are asymmetric and over the range of field Af gauss and temperature Af the asymmetry increases with increasing Af and decreasing T .
The general theory of resonance shifts is used to derive a general expression for the second moment Af of a polycrystalline paramagnetic sample and is specialized to Af .
The theory predicts a linear dependence of Af on Af , where J is the experimentally determined Curie-Weiss constant .
The experimental second moment Af conforms to the relation Af in agreement with theory .
The nuclear dipole effects provide some information on the motions of the hydrogen nuclei , but the symmetry of the Af bond in Af remains in doubt .
We first discuss the Af bond in Af .
The information provided by the electron paramagnetic effects is then discussed , and finally the nuclear effects are interpreted in terms of various motional-modified models of the Af bond in Af .
There is ample evidence from many sources that the Af bond in Af is symmetric .
The Af distance in Af is 2.26 Aj .
There is evidence , though less convincing than for Af , that the Af bond in nickel dimethylglyoxime is symmetric .
Here the Af distance is 2.44 Aj .
A number of semiempirical estimates by various workers lead to the conclusion that the Af bond becomes symmetric when the Af bond length is about 2.4 to 2.5 A , but aside from the possible example of nickel dimethylglyoxime there have been no convincing reports of symmetric Af bonds .
He finds the structure contains an Af bond with the Af distance of Af .
There is , then , the possibility that this Af bond is symmetric , although Douglass was unable to determine its symmetry from his x-ray data .
Douglass found Af to be trigonal , Laue symmetry Af , with Af , Af .
These data lead to a structure in which sheets of Cr atoms lie between two sheets of O atoms .
The O atoms in each sheet are close packed and each Cr atom is surrounded by a distorted octahedron of O atoms .
The structure appears to be unique among OOH compounds , but is the same as that assumed by Af .
However , the possible absence of a center of symmetry not only moves the hydrogen atom off Af , but also allows the oxygen atoms to become nonequivalent , with Af at Af and Af at Af ( space group Af ) , where Af represents the oxygens on one side of the Af layers and Af those on the other side .
However , any oxygen nonequivalence would shorten either the already extremely short Af interlayer distance of 2.55 A or the non-hydrogen-bonded Af interlayer interactions which are already quite short at 2.58 Aj .
If the Af bond is linear then there are three reasonable positions for the hydrogen atoms : ( 1 ) The hydrogen atoms are centered and hence all lie on a sheet midway between the oxygen sheets ; ;
Subsequently , we learned from Douglass that his sample contained a few percent Af impurity .
Since Af is ferromagnetic , we felt that any results obtained from the magnetically contaminated Af would be suspect .
The expected weight loss for Af going to Af and Af is 10.6% .
The x-ray diffraction pattern of the material , taken with CuK**ya radiation , indicated the presence of no extra lines and was in good agreement with the pattern of Douglass .
Magnetic analyses by R. G. Meisenheimer of this laboratory indicated no ferromagnetic impurities .
Af was found to be paramagnetic with three unpaired electrons per chromium atom and a molecular susceptibility of Af , where Af .
An infrared spectrum , obtained by H. A. Benesi and R. G. Snyder of this laboratory , showed bands in the positions found by Jones .
The magnetic resonance absorption was detected by employing a Varian model Af broad line spectrometer and the associated 12-inch electromagnet system .
One measurement at 40 Mc/sec was obtained with the Varian model Af unit .
The value of Af estimated at 470 gauss was Af microseconds .
A single measurement of the spin - spin relaxation time Af was obtained at 10 Mc/sec by pulse methods .
This measurement was obtained by W. Blumberg of the University of California , Berkeley , by observing the breadth of the free induction decay signal .
For the low-temperature measurements the sample was cooled by a cold nitrogen gas flow method similar to that of Andrew and Eades .
The measured powder density of the Af used here was about Af , approximately one-third that of the crystal density ( Af ) .
Spectra were also obtained from a third sample of Af which had been diluted to three times its original volume with powdered , anhydrous alundum ( Af ) .
However , a major factor in binding dirt is the attraction between surfaces that goes under the name of Van der Waal's forces .
The thermal exchange of chlorine between Af and liquid Af is readily measurable at temperatures in the range of 180-degrees and above .
In the gas phase , with Af of Af and Af of Af , quantum yields of the order of Af have been observed at 85-degrees .
It appears possible to set a lower limit of about Af for the activation energy of the abstraction of a chlorine atom from a carbon tetrachloride molecule by a chlorine atom to form Af radical .
-- Matheson highest purity tank chlorine was passed through a tube of resublimed Af into an evacuated Pyrex system where it was condensed with liquid air .
To prepare the latter , silver chloride was precipitated from a solution containing Af obtained from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory .
Liter quantities of Mallinckrodt , low sulfur , reagent grade carbon tetrachloride were saturated with Af and Af and illuminated for about 50 hours with a 1000 watt tungsten lamp at a distance of a few inches .
The mixture was then extracted with alkali and with water following which the carbon tetrachloride was distilled on a Vigreux column , a 25% center cut being retained which was then degassed under vacuum in the presence of Af .
After titration of the liberated Af with Af , aliquots of the aqueous and of the organic phase were counted in a solution-type Geiger tube .
The fraction of exchange was determined as the ratio of the counts / minute observed in the carbon tetrachloride to the counts / minute calculated for the carbon tetrachloride fractions for equilibrium distribution of the activity between the chlorine and carbon tetrachloride , empirically determined correction being made for the difference in counting efficiency of Af in Af and Af .
In addition to the method described in the section above , chlorine and radiochlorine were prepared by the electrolysis of a Af eutectic on the vacuum line , and by exchange of Af with molten Af .
Wyatt and Whipple , 1950 ) , which is a retardation of the orbital motion of particles by the relativistic aberration of the repulsive force of the impinging solar radiation , causes the dust to spiral into the sun in times much shorter than the age of the Earth .
If such is the case , the particles within a distance of about Af of the Earth will have , relative to the Earth , a kinetic energy less than their potential energy and they will be captured into orbits about the Earth .
De Jager ( 1955 ) has calculated the times required for these particles to reach the atmosphere under the influence of the Poynting-Robertson effect , which in this case causes the orbits to become more and more eccentric without changing the semi-major axis .
Beyond a few million kilometers from the Earth , but still in the region of the Earth's orbit , a prediction of the flux of dust is even more unreliable .
Statistically , the most significant data have been collected from the sensors on 1958 Alpha ( Explorer 1 ) , 1958 Delta 2 ( Sputnik 3 ) , and 1959 Eta ( Vanguard 3 ) .
The impact rate on 1958 Alpha for 153 events was Af for particles of mass greater than Af ( Dubin , 1960 ) ; ;
On May 15 , a very large increase occurred with Af of mass between Af and Af ; ;
Preliminary data from 1959 Eta give an average impact rate of Af for masses larger than Af for about 1000 events in a 22-day period ( LaGow and Alexander , 1960 ) .
In the United States , most of the sensors are calibrated by dropping small spheres on their sensitive surfaces .
The threshold mass is derived from the momentum threshold with the assumption of a mean impact velocity of Af in the U.S. work and Af in the U.S.S.R. work .
A summary of meteorite data , prepared by Whipple ( 1958 ) on the basis of photographic , visual , and radar evidence , is given in Table 5-1 .
The values agree with the data from 1958 Alpha and 1959 Eta .
The mass scale used in Table 5-1 was derived on the assumption that the motion of the glowing trail is related to the momentum transfer to the trail by the meteorite , permitting the calculation of the mass if the velocity is known ( Cook and Whipple , 1958 ) .
A concentration distribution has been derived from radar observations sensitive to the fifteenth magnitude ( Manning and Eshleman , 1959 ) .
The approximate equation is Af , where N is the number of Af with electron line-density greater than or equal to Af , and Q is proportional to the mass of the meteorite .
Therefore , N is inversely proportional to the radius cubed and in fair agreement with the inverse 7/2 power derived from 1958 Alpha and 1959 Eta data .
At the fifteenth magnitude , Af , and at the twenty-fifth magnitude , Af .
A measure of the total mass accretion of meteoritic material by the Earth is obtained from analyses of deep-sea sediments and dust collected in remote regions ( Pettersson , 1960 ) .
Present data indicate an accretion of about Af tons per year over the entire globe , or about Af .
An aqueous suspension of the spores of B. subtilis , var. niger , generally known as Bacillus globigii , was aerosolized using commercially available nozzles .
In this test , 130 gallons of a suspension , having a count of Af organisms per ml , or a total of approximately Af spores , was aerosolized .
These were located at the homes of Government employees , in Government Offices , buildings and reservations within the trial area .
Let us assume that it would be possible for an enemy to create an aerosol of the causative agent of epidemic typhus ( Rickettsia prowazwki ) over City A and that a large number of cases of typhus fever resulted therefrom .
No epidemic was initiated nor was one expected because the population in City A was not lousy .
On the other hand , a similar attack might have been made on City B whose population was known to be lousy .
Abelson and Rawson , using a stepwise elution scheme , fractionated whole sera containing ABO and Rh antibodies on diethylaminoethyl DEAE cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose .
In the present work whole sera have been fractionated by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose using single gradients similar to those described by Sober and Peterson , and certain chemical and serological properties of the fractions containing antibodies of the ABO and Rh systems have been described .
Serum samples were obtained from normal group A , group B and group O donors .
In addition one serum was obtained from a donor ( R. E. ) who had been sensitized 6 years previously .
Anti-A and anti-B activities were determined in fractions from the sera of group A , group B or group O donors by the following tube agglutination methods .
One drop of each sample was added to one drop of a 2% suspension of group Af or group B red cells in a small Af test tube .
The activities of fractions of sera containing Rh antibodies were tested by the saline , albumin and indirect Coombs techniques .
Homozygous and heterozygous Af cells , Af and homozygous and heterozygous Af cells were used to test each sample ; ;
The red cells for the Rh antibody tests were used within 3 days after drawing except for the Af cells , which had been glycerolized and stored at -20-degrees-C for approximately 1 year .
This buffer , pH 8.6 , was 0.005 M in Af and 0.039 M in tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminometha ( Tris ) .
After dialysis the sample was centrifuged and the supernatant placed on a Af cm column of EEAE-cellulose equilibrated with starting buffer .
The DEAE-cellulose , containing 0.78 mEq of N/g , was prepared in our laboratory by the method of Peterson and Sober ( 7 ) from powdered cellulose , 100 - 230 mesh .
The chromatography was done at 6-degrees-C using gradient elution , essentially according to Sober and Peterson .
The other , a shallow concave gradient ( Fig. 1 ) , was produced with a so-called `` cone-sphere '' apparatus , the `` cone '' being a 2-liter Erlenmeyer flask and the `` sphere , '' a 2-liter round-bottom flask .
in the sphere was starting buffer and in the cone was final buffer , 0.50 M in both Af and Tris , pH 4.1 .
These were read at 280 m**ym in a Beckman model DU spectrophotometer and tested for antibody activity as described above .
Paper electrophoresis was carried out on the concentrated samples in a Spinco model R cell using barbital buffer , pH 8.6 , ionic strength 0.075 , at room temperature on Whatman 3MM filter paper .
Five milliamperes/cell were applied for 18 hr , after which the strips were stained with bromphenol blue and densitometry was carried out using a Spinco Analytrol .
They were then centrifuged at 59,780 Pm for 35 to 80 min at 20-degrees-C in a Spinco model E ultracentrifuge at a protein concentration of 1.00 to 1.25% .
Sedimentation coefficients were computed as Af values and relative amounts of the various components were calculated from the Schlieren patterns .
Ultracentrifugation was then carried out in a Spinco model L ultracentrifuge at 40,000 rpm for 125 to 150 min , refrigeration being used throughout the run .
With either of the gradients described , chromatography on DEAE-cellulose separated agglutinins of the ABO series into at least three regions ( Figs. 1 and 2 ) : one of extremely low anionic binding capacity , one of low anionic binding capacity and one of high anionic binding capacity .
These have been labeled Regions 1 , 2 , and 4 , respectively , in Fig. 1 .
When the early part of the gradient was flattened , either by using the gradient shown in Fig. 2 or by allowing the `` cone-sphere '' gradient to become established more slowly , Region 2 activity could sometimes be separated into two areas ( donors P. J. and R. S. , Fig. 1 and E. M. , Fig. 2 ) .
The latter procedure gave rise to a small active protein peak ( Region 1a ) between Regions 1 and 2 .
In 2 of 15 experiments on whole serum a region of agglutinin activity with intermediate anionic binding capacity was detected ( Region 3 , Fig. 1 ) .
Moreover , after concentration using negative pressure dialysis , agglutinin activity could sometimes be detected in the region designated 2a ( donors P. J. , D. A. , and J. F. , Fig. 1 ) .
This was particularly noticeable in group A and group B sera , in which cases activity in Regions 1 and 2 was usually not detectable without prior concentration and occasionally could not be detected at all .
There appeared to be no difference in the distribution of anti-A and anti-B activity in group O serum , though in two group O donors ( J. F. and E. M. ) only one type of agglutinin was found in the regions of low anionic binding capacity ( Figs. 1 and 2 ) .
Several samples of citrated plasma were fractionated in our laboratory by Method 6 of Cohn et al .
These fractions were tested for ABO agglutinin activity , using fractions from group AB plasma as a control .
As expected , most of the activity was found in Fraction Af , with slight activity seen in Fraction 4-1 .
A sample of Fraction Af from group O plasma was dissolved in starting buffer , dialyzed against this buffer and subjected to chromatography using the gradient shown in Fig. 2 .
In all cases the activity against Af cells was spread over a wider area than that with Af cells , regardless of the type of test ( saline , albumin , indirect Coombs ) used for comparison .
The survivors emerge on some nice , sunny day in March or April , when the temperature is close to 50-degrees and there is not too much wind .
Now the thing for us to do is to find ourselves a couple of those wonderful flowering currants such as the red Ribes sanguineum of our Pacific Northwest , or otherwise a good sloe tree , or perhaps some nice pussy willow in bloom , preferably one with male or staminate catkins .
There must be several dozen species in the United States alone .
If you really insist on knowing their names , an excellent book on the North American species is Bumblebees And Their Ways by O. E. Plath .
Bumblebees can thus suffer severely from the onslaughts of Psithyrus , the `` cuckoo-bumblebee '' as it is called in some European countries .
Later on , they and the mother Psithyrus are fed by the Bombus workers .
Worse still , in a number of cases it has been claimed that the Psithyrus female kills the Bombus queen .
There are about 200 different kinds of Andrena in Europe alone .
One of my favorites is A. armata , a species very common in England , where it is sometimes referred to as the lawn bee .
In the Sacramento valley in California , for instance , it has been observed that there was not one day's difference between the emergence of the andrenas and the opening of the willow catkins .
Nomia melanderi can be found in tremendous numbers in certain parts of the United States west of the Great Plains , for example , in Utah and central Washington .
In the United States Department of Agriculture's Yearbook Of Agriculture , 1952 , which is devoted entirely to insects , George E. Bohart mentions a site in Utah which was estimated to contain 200,000 nesting females .
This may just be pride in my adopted State of Washington , but certainly I love to visit their mound cities near Yakima and Prosser in July or August , when the bees are in their most active period .
Laurence M. Klauber put length at maturity at two thirds the ultimate length for some rattlesnakes , and Charles C. Carpenter's data on Michigan garter and ribbon snakes ( Thamnophis ) show that the smallest gravid females are more than half as long as the biggest adults .
Oliver , in his summary of the habits of the snakes of the United States , could supply data on the maturing period for only three species in addition to the rattlers , which I shall consider separately .
Other herpetologists have ascertained that in the northern United States the prairie rattlesnake may not give first birth until it is four or even five years old , and that the young may be born every other year , rather than annually .
Oliver has recently used the second-level approach with the largest snakes , and has come to these conclusions : the anaconda reaches a length of at least 37 feet , the reticulate python 33 , the African rock python 25 , the amethystine python at least 22 , the Indian python 20 , and the boa constrictor 18-1/2 .
A brood of twenty-eight born at Brookfield Zoo , near Chicago , ranged in length from 22 to 33-1/2 inches and averaged 29 inches .
Lawrence E. Griffin gives measurements of nineteen young anacondas , presumably members of a brood , from `` South America '' ; ;
Raymond L. Ditmars had two broods that averaged 27 inches .
R. R. Mole and F. W. Urich give approximately 20 inches as the average length of a brood of thirty from the region of the Orinoco estuaries .
William Beebe reports 26 inches and 2.4 ounces ( this snake must have been emaciated ) for the length and the weight of a young anaconda from British Guiana .
In contrast , Ditmars recorded the average length of seventy-two young of a 19-foot female as 38 inches , and four young were born in London at a length of 35 or 36 inches and a weight of from 14 to 16 ounces .
Hans Schweizer had one that increased from 19-1/2 inches to 5 feet 3 inches in five years , and J. J. Quelch records a growth of from less than 4 feet to nearly 10 in about six years .
In 1948 , Afranio Do Amaral , the noted Brazilian herpetologist , wrote a technical paper on the giant snakes .
Thus , his estimate lies between Oliver's suggestion of at least 37 feet and the 50-foot `` monstrous freaks '' intimated by Heuvelmans .
The most convincing recent measurement of an anaconda was made in eastern Colombia by Roberto Lamon , a petroleum geologist of the Richmond Oil Company , and reported in 1944 by Emmett R. Dunn .
A Colombian female's brood of sixteen boa constrictors born in the Staten Island Zoo averaged 20 inches .
the former figure is based on a somewhat unusual birth of four by a Central American female ( see chapter on Laying , Brooding , Hatching , and Birth ) , the latter on a `` normal '' newly born individual .
Alphonse R. Hoge's measurements of several very young specimens from Brazil suggest that at birth the female is slightly larger than the male .
Carl Kauffeld has written to me of sexual activity in February 1943 of young born in March 1940 .
The female from Central America which gave birth to four was only 3 feet 11 inches long .
and , in contrast , are present to a relatively immense degree on a segmental basis in the dog where lobules are absent ( Van Allen and Lindskog , '31 ) .
As early as 1858 , Le Fort claimed an alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries in human beings .
Apparently , however , Miller has relied heavily on the anatomy in dogs and cats , and he has been criticized for using pathologic human material in his normal study ( Loosli , '38 ) .
Although Miller noted in 1907 that a difference in the pleural blood supply existed between animals , nowhere in his published works is it found that he did a comparative study of the intrapulmonary features of various mammalian lungs other than in the dog and cat ( Miller , '13 ; ;
Theoretically , they are capable of extracting their required oxygen either from the surrounding air ( Ghoreyeb and Karsner , '13 ) or from pulmonary arterial blood ( Comroe , '58 ) .
Nakamura ( '58 ) , Verloop ( '48 ) , Marchand , Gilroy and Watson ( '50 ) , Von Hayek ( '53 ) , and Tobin ( '52 ) have all claimed their normal but relatively nonfunctional existence in the human being .
As early as 1913 Ghoreyeb and Karsner demonstrated with perfusion studies in dogs that bronchial artery flow would remain constant at a certain low level when pressure was maintained in the pulmonary artery and vein , but that increases in bronchial artery flow would occur in response to a relative drop in pulmonary artery pressure .
Berry , Brailsford and Daly in 1931 and Nakamura in 1958 reaffirmed this .
Ellis , Grindlay and Edwards ( '52 ) also were unable to find them in rats .
Some of the features of the top portions of Figure 1 and Figure 2 were mentioned in discussing Table 1 .
First , the Onset Profile spreads across approximately 12 years for boys and 10 years for girls .
In contrast , 20 of the 21 lines in the Completion Profile ( excluding center 5 for boys and 4 for girls ) are bunched and extend over a much shorter period , approximately 30 months for boys and 40 months for girls .
The Maturity Chart for each sex demonstrates clearly that Onset is a phenomenon of infancy and early childhood whereas Completion is a phenomenon of the later portion of adolescence .
Second , for both sexes , the 21 transverse lines in the Onset Profile vary more in individual spread than those in the Completion Profile .
Although the standard deviation values on which spread of the lines is based are relatively larger for those centers which begin to ossify early ( Table 1 ) , there are considerable differences in this value between centers having the closely timed Onsets .
The Onset Profile and Completion Profile are constructed to serve as norms for children .
In the lower portion of each Chart , the Skeletal Age ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be similarly classified .
There the middle one of the three curves denotes `` mean Skeletal Age '' for the Maturity Series boys and girls .
Thus , a child's Skeletal Age `` dots '' may be classified as `` advanced '' when they appear above the middle curve , `` moderate '' when they appear immediately above or below the middle curve , and `` delayed '' when they appear below the lower curve .
To summarize the purpose of the Skeletal Maturity Chart : each contains two kinds of skeletal maturity norms which show two quite different methods of depicting developmental level of growth centers .
First , the upper portion requires series of films for every child , consisting of those from Hand , Elbow , Shoulder , Knee , and Foot .
The lower portion permits comparison of maturity levels of short and round bones predominantly , since only two long bones are included in Hand and Wrist as a region .
Third , the upper portion deals with only two indicators of developmental level , Onset and Completion .
The lower portion utilizes the full complement of intermediate maturity indicators of each Hand center as well as their Onset and Completion .
Onsets , Completions , and Skeletal Ages ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be directly compared and classified , using only those Skeletal Ages which appear immediately below the Onset Profile and the Completion Profile .
Accordingly , maturity level ratings by means of the upper portion and lower portion of the Chart , respectively , should be somewhat similar since Skeletal Age assessments are dependent upon Onsets during infancy and upon Completions during adolescence .
Since a Skeletal Age rating can be made at any age during growth , from Elbow , Shoulder , Knee , or Foot as well as Hand , it seems to be the method of choice when one wishes to study most aspects of skeletal developmental progress during childhood .
As stated earlier in the paper , Onsets and Completions -- particularly the former -- provide a different tool or indicator of expectancy in osseous development , each within a limited age period .
It was stated earlier that one purpose of this study was to extend the analysis of variability of Onset and Completion in each of the 21 growth centers somewhat beyond that provided by the data in Tables 1 and 2 .
The data for boy 34 appear in Figure 3 , and for girl 2 in Figure 4 .
The numbering system used in Tables 1 and 2 and Figures 1 and 2 was continued for the 21 growth centers .
The direction in which the arrow points shows how the maturity level of the growth center was changed at Completion from the level at Onset .
The length of the arrow indicates amount of slowing or acceleration at Completion over that at Onset , and the difference in months can be read roughly by referring the arrow to the age scale along the base of each figure , or more precisely by referring to the original data in the appropriate tables .
The difference between the sequence of Onset of ossification for the sexes governs the numbering sequence in Figures 3 and 4 .
For example , arrow 17 in Figure 3 portrays the proximal radial epiphysis for boy 34 , whereas the same epiphysis for girl 2 is portrayed by arrow 18 in Figure 4 .
For the boy , this epiphysis was markedly delayed at Onset but near the mean at Completion .
In contrast , for the girl the epiphysis was slightly advanced at Onset and delayed at Completion .
Obviously , the slowing for her may have occurred at any point between Onset and Completion .
The Skeletal Age curve in the lower portion of Figure 2 shows that slowing may have occurred for her during the prepubescent period .
The principles used in making each arrow for Figures 3 and 4 were applied to the construction of Figures 5 and 6 as well as all figures in the Appendix .
At the top of Figure 5 , for example , the Onset range and Completion range lines for the chosen growth center have been drawn for girls according to their mean and standard deviation values in Table 1 .
The 34 arrows , denoting onset age plus completion age deviations , have been arrayed in an Onset sequence which begins with girl 18 who had the earliest Onset of the 34 girls .
The mean onset age was 25.3 months ( Table 1 ) , and the average Span of the osseous stage was 133 months .
The correlation ( Table 2 ) between onset age and completion age was -.50 , and that between onset age and Span was -.10 .
With due consideration for the limits of precision in assessing , expected rate of change in ossification of girls age 2 years , and the known variations in rate of ossification of these children as described in our preceding paper in the Supplement , each arrow with a `` shaft length '' of four months or less was selected as indicating `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion , for this particular epiphysis .
Accordingly , girls 31 , 29 , 33 , 21 , 26 , 13 , 3 , 4 , 14 , 32 , 24 , 25 , 34 , 23 , 6 , 15 , 22 , and 16 may be said to have the `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion .
It seems clear , from the counter-balanced shape of the series of arrows in Figure 5 that there was about an equal number of early and late Onsets and Completions for the 34 girls .
As an example of the interpretation of an arrow in the figure which exceeds four months in shaft length in conjunction with its position in the figure : girl 2 had a delayed Onset and further delayed Completion .
Boys 32 , 23 , 31 , 17 , 30 , 19 , and 24 had `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion ; ;
The `` dot '' on his arrow indicates early Onset and the `` tip '' indicates relatively later Completion .
In the absence of additions to the homogenate , the product formed is an iodinated particulate protein ( Fawcett and Kirkwood , 1953 ; ;
Taurog , Potter and Chaikoff , 1955 ; ;
Taurog , Potter , Tong , and Chaikoff , 1956 ; ;
De Groot and Carvalho , 1960 ) .
On chemical grounds it seems most likely that iodide is first converted to Af and then to Af as the active iodinating species .
There is some reason to think that thyroglobulin synthesis may proceed independently of iodination , for in certain transplantable tumours of the rat thyroid containing essentially no iodinated thyroglobulin , a protein that appears to be thyroglobulin has been observed in ultracentrifuge experiments ( Wolff , Robbins and Rall , 1959 ) .
Since the circulating thyroid hormones are the amino acids thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine ( cf. Section C ) , it is clear that some mechanism must exist in the thyroid gland for their release from proteins before secretion .
One of the proteases has pH optimum of about 3.7 and another of about 5.7 ( McQuillan , Stanley and Trikojus , 1954 ; ;
Alpers , Robbins and Rall , 1955 ) .
A study of their activity on thyroglobulin has shown that thyroxine is not preferentially released and that the degradation proceeds stepwise with the formation of macromolecular intermediates ( Alpers , Petermann and Rall , 1956 ) .
It has been suggested that the plasma thyroxine-binding proteins , which have an extremely high affinity for thyroxine , compete with thyroglobulin for thyroxine ( Ingbar and Freinkel , 1957 ) .
The most conclusively identified is L-5-vinyl-2-thio-oxazolidone , which was isolated from rutabaga ( Greer , 1950 ) .
There is some evidence that naturally occurring goitrogens may play a role in the development of goitre , particularly in Tasmania and Australia ( Clements and Wishart , 1956 ) .
In the experimental animal and in man gross deficiency in dietary iodine causes thyroid hyperplasia , hypertrophy and increased thyroid activity ( Money , Rall and Rawson , 1952 ; ;
Stanbury , Brownell , Riggs , Perinetti , Itoiz , and Del Castillo , 1954 ) .
If the deficiency persists long enough , it is reasonable to suppose that the Af label will reflect the Af distribution in the thyroglobulin .
At the present time we do not know by what biochemical mechanism TSH acts on the thyroid , but for bio-assay of the hormone there are a number of properties by which its activity may be estimated , including release of iodine from the thyroid , increase in thyroid weight , increase in mean height of the follicular cells and increase in the thyroidal uptake of Af .
This connection was clarified by Smith and Smith ( 1922 ) , who showed that saline extracts of fresh bovine pituitary glands could re-activate the atrophied thyroids of hypophysectomised tadpoles .
The first attempts to isolate TSH came a decade later , when Janssen and Loeser ( 1931 ) used trichloroacetic acid to separate the soluble TSH from insoluble impurities .
Much of this work has been reviewed by White ( 1944 ) and by Albert ( 1949 ) .
In the last few years , the application of chromatographic and other modern techniques to the problem of isolating TSH has led to further purification ( Bates and Condliffe , 1960 ; ;
Pierce , Carsten and Wynston , 1960 ) .
It is therefore necessary to consider the properties of pituitary TSH if the fragmentary chemical information about blood TSH is to be discussed rationally .
The importance of knowing in what chemical forms the hormone may exist is accentuated by the recent observation that there exists an abnormally long-acting TSH in blood drawn from many thyrotoxic patients ( Adams , 1958 ) .
Whether this abnormal TSH differs chemically from pituitary TSH , or is , alternatively , normal TSH with its period of effectiveness modified by some other blood constituent , cannot be decided without chemical study of the activity in the blood of these patients and a comparison of the substance responsible for the blood activity with pituitary Aj .
The introduction of the United States Pharmacopoeia reference standard in 1952 and the redefinition and equating of the USP and international units of thyroid-stimulating activity have made it possible to compare results published by different investigators since that time .
The international unit ( u. ) , adopted to make possible the comparison of results from different laboratories ( Mussett and Perry , 1955 ) , has been defined as the amount of activity present in 13.5 mg of the International Standard Preparation .
The international unit is equipotent with the USP unit adopted in 1952 , which was defined as the amount of activity present in 20 mg of the USP reference substance .
This patient was a 65-year-old white male accountant who entered the New York Hospital for his fourth and terminal admission on June 26 , 1959 , because of disabling weakness and general debility .
Because of increasing anemia , triamcinolone , 8 mg. daily , was started on Feb. 23 , 1958 , and was continued until July , 1958 .
In an attempt to reverse the downhill trend by stimulating the bone marrow and controlling any hemolytic component , triamcinolone , 16 mg. daily , was begun on Sept. 26 , 1958 , and continued until Feb. 18 , 1959 .
Prednisone , 30 mg. daily , was substituted for triamcinolone from Nov. 22 until Dec. 1 , 1958 , without any improvement in the weakness .
A Schilling test demonstrated normal absorption of vitamin Af .
In February , 1959 , during the second admission to The New York Hospital , a biopsy specimen of the left gastrocnemius showed striking increase in the sarcolemmal sheath nuclei and shrunken muscle fibers in several sections .
On Feb. 12 , 1959 , purified corticotropin ( ACTH Gel ) , 20 units daily intramuscularly , was started but had to be discontinued 3 weeks later because of excessive fluid retention .
From March 3 to May 1 , 1949 , the patient was maintained on dexamethasone , 3 to 6 mg. daily .
Cultures taken from the jejunum yielded Monilia albicans , Pseudomonas pyocanea , Aerobacter aerogenes , and Streptococcus anhemolyticus .
In attempting to improve specificity of staining , the fluorescein-labeled antisera used in both direct and indirect methods were treated in one of several ways : ( 1 ) They were passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and treated with acetone insoluble powders ( Coons , 1958 ) prepared from mouse liver or from healthy sweet clover stems or crown gall tissue produced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens ( E. F. Smith & Townsend ) on sweet clover stems .
The proteins were extracted with 3 volumes of Af in Af to give a nearly neutral extract and precipitated by 80% saturation with Af .
The precipitate was washed twice with an 80% saturated solution of Af , dissolved in a small quantity of 0.1 M neutral phosphate buffer , dialyzed against cold distilled water till free from ammonium ions , and lyophilized using liquid nitrogen .
( 3 ) In other experiments the indirect conjugate was treated with 3 volumes of ethyl acetate as recommended by Dineen and Ade ( 1957 ) .
( 4 ) The conjugates were passed through a diethylaminoethyl ( DEAE ) cellulose column equilibrated with neutral phosphate buffer ( PBS ) containing Af potassium phosphate and Af .
The sections were mounted on cold slides smeared with Haupts' adhesive ( Johansen , 1940 ) in earlier experiments , and in later experiments with a different mixture of the same components reported by Schramm and Rottger ( 1959 ) .
After blotting out most of the saline around the sections , a drop of Af was layered over each of the sections , allowed to react for 30 minutes , and then washed with PBS for 15 - 30 minutes .
After drying the sections under the fan , fixing in acetone , and drying at 37-degrees as in the indirect method , the sections were treated with conjugated Af or Af ( undiluted unless mentioned otherwise ) for 5 - 30 minutes .
As controls , other sections were similarly treated with Af or conjugated antiserum to the New York strain of potato yellow-dwarf virus ( Wolcyrz and Black , 1956 ) .
Stained or unstained sections were examined under dark field illumination in a Zeiss fluorescence microscope equipped with a mercury vapor lamp ( Osram HBO 200 ) .
In the eyepiece a Wratten 2 B filter was used to filter off residual ultra-violet light .
A red filter , Zeiss barrier filter with the code ( Schott ) designation BG 23 , was also used in the ocular lens assembly as it improved the contrast between specific and nonspecific fluorescence .
In the first few experiments Af was passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and absorbed twice with 50 - 100 mg sweet clover tissue powder .
Sections of sweet clover stem and root tumors were treated with 1 : 10 solution of Af for 30 minutes , washed in buffered saline for 15 minutes , stained with Af for 30 minutes , and washed for 15 minutes in Aj .
Such sections showed bright yellow-green specific fluorescence in the cells of the pseudophloem tissue ( Lee and Black , 1955 ) .
This specific fluorescence was readily distinguished from the light green nonspecific fluorescence in consecutive sections stained with 1 : 10 dilution of NS and Af or with Af alone .
Unstained sections mounted in buffered glycerine or sections treated only with NS or Af did not show such green fluorescence .
Sections of crown gall tissue similarly stained with either Af and Af or NS and Af also showed only the light green nonspecific fluorescence .
However , the nonspecific staining by the Af in tumor sections was considered bright enough to be confused with the staining of small amounts of WTV antigen .
Two absorptions of Af with ethyl acetate or two absorptions of Af ( which had been passed through Dowex-2-chloride ) , NS and Af with crown gall tissue powder , or mouse liver powder did not further improve the specificity of staining .
In the latter cases an additional treatment of the DEAE-cellulose-treated Af with 50 mg of sweet clover stem tissue powder further improved the specificity .
With this purified conjugate the best staining procedure consisted of treating the sections with 1 : 10 dilution of Af for 30 minutes , washing with PBS for 15 minutes , staining with Af for 30 minutes , and washing with PBS for 15 minutes .
The specificity of staining in WTV tumors with Af and Af but not with NS and Af or with antiserum to potato yellow-dwarf virus and Af , and the absence of such staining in crown gall tumor tissue from sweet-clover , indicate that an antigen of WTV was being stained .
In later experiments , Af and Af were prepared by conjugating 8 mg of FITC per gram of globulin .
These conjugates Af had much less nonspecific staining than the previous conjugate ( with 50 mg FITC per gram of globulin ) while the specific staining was similar in both cases .
Nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily eliminated by passing these conjugates through a DEAE-cellulose column as described for Af .
The best staining procedure with this purified Af consisted of staining with the conjugate for 30 minutes and washing in PBS for 15 minutes .
The specificity of staining with Af was established as follows : Af specifically stained tumor sections but not sections of healthy sweet clover stems or of crown gall tumor tissue from sweet clover .
After passing Af through DEAE-cellulose , the titer of antibodies to WTV in the specific fraction was 1 : 4 of the titer before such passage ( precipitin ring tests by R. F. Whitcomb ) ; ;
This indicates that increase in specificity of Af after passing it through DEAE-cellulose was not merely due to dilution .
Specific staining by DEAE-cellulose treated Af and Af , although clearly distinguishable under the microscope from either nonspecific staining or autofluorescence of cells , was not satisfactorily photographed to show such differences in spite of many attempts with black and white and color photography .
In some tumor sections small spherical bodies , possibly inclusion bodies ( Littau and Black , 1952 ) stained more intensely than the rest of cytoplasm and probably contained more antigen .
In the indirect method , this was evident from the fact that tumor sections were stained light green even when stained with NS and Af or with Af only .
In the direct method , Af , not further treated , stained certain tissues of healthy sweet clover stems nonspecifically and WTV tumor sections were similarly stained by comparable Af .
After Af and Af were passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and treated twice with healthy sweet clover tissue powder , nonspecific staining was greatly reduced but a disturbing amount of such staining was still present .
Even more complex and obviously cortically induced forms of emotional arousal could be elicited in monkey A on seeing monkey B ( but not a rabbit ) in emotional stress .
We are trying to study a linear operator T on the finite-dimensional space V , by decomposing T into a direct sum of operators which are in some sense elementary .
We can do this through the characteristic values and vectors of T in certain special cases , i.e. , when the minimal polynomial for T factors over the scalar field F into a product of distinct monic polynomials of degree 1 .
Second , even if the characteristic polynomial factors completely over F into a product of polynomials of degree 1 , there may not be enough characteristic vectors for T to span the space V .
The second situation is illustrated by the operator T on Af ( F any field ) represented in the standard basis by Af .
The characteristic polynomial for A is Af and this is plainly also the minimal polynomial for A ( or for T ) .
On the other hand , the null space of Af and the null space of Af together span V , the former being the subspace spanned by Af and the latter the subspace spanned by Af and Af .
If ( remember this is an assumption ) the minimal polynomial for T decomposes Af where Af are distinct elements of F , then we shall show that the space V is the direct sum of the null spaces of Af .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
Let p be the minimal polynomial for T , Af , where the Af , are distinct irreducible monic polynomials over F and the Af are positive integers .
Let Af be the null space of Af .
Then ( A ) Af ; ;
( B ) each Af is invariant under T ; ;
( C ) if Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then the minimal polynomial for Af is Af .
If the direct-sum decomposition ( A ) is valid , how can we get hold of the projections Af associated with the decomposition ? ?
The projection Af will be the identity on Af and zero on the other Af .
We shall find a polynomial Af such that Af is the identity on Af and is zero on the other Af , and so that Af , etc. .
Since Af are distinct prime polynomials , the polynomials Af are relatively prime ( Theorem 8 , Chapter 4 ) .
Thus there are polynomials Af such that Af .
Note also that if Af , then Af is divisible by the polynomial p , because Af contains each Af as a factor .
Since Af and P divides Af for Af , we have Af .
Thus the Af are projections which correspond to some direct-sum decomposition of the space V .
We wish to show that the range of Af is exactly the subspace Af .
It is clear that each vector in the range of Af is in Af for if **ya is in the range of Af , then Af and so Af because Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P .
If Af , then Af is divisible by Af and so Af , i.e. , Af .
But then it is immediate that Af , i.e. , that **ya is in the range of Af .
It is certainly clear that the subspaces Af are invariant under T .
If Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then evidently Af , because by definition Af is 0 on the subspace Af .
This shows that the minimal polynomial for Af divides Af .
Conversely , let G be any polynomial such that Af .
Thus Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P of T , i.e. , Af divides Af .
It is easily seen that Af divides G .
Hence the minimal polynomial for Af is Af .
If Af are the projections associated with the primary decomposition of T , then each Af is a polynomial in T , and accordingly if a linear operator U commutes with T then U commutes with each of the Af , i.e. , each subspace Af is invariant under U .
In the notation of the proof of Theorem 12 , let us take a look at the special case in which the minimal polynomial for T is a product of first-degree polynomials , i.e. , the case in which each Af is of the form Af .
Now the range of Af is the null space Af of Af .
By Theorem 10 , D is a diagonalizable operator which we shall call the diagonalizable part of T .
Now Af Af so Af .
The reader should be familiar enough with projections by now so that he sees that Af and in general that Af .
When Af for each i , we shall have Af , because the operator Af will then be 0 on the range of Af .
Let N be a linear operator on the vector space V .
We say that N is nilpotent if there is some positive integer R such that Af .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
Suppose that the minimal polynomial for T decomposes over F into a product of linear polynomials .
Then there is a diagonalizable operator D on V and a nilpotent operator N in V such that ( A ) Af , ( b ) Af .
The diagonalizable operator D and the nilpotent operator N are uniquely determined by ( A ) and ( B ) and each of them is a polynomial in T .
We have just observed that we can write Af where D is diagonalizable and N is nilpotent , and where D and N not only commute but are polynomials in T .
Now suppose that we also have Af where D' is diagonalizable , N' is nilpotent , and Af .
Since D' and N' commute with one another and Af , we see that D' and N' commute with T .
Thus D' and N' commute with any polynomial in T ; ;
Now we have Af or Af and all four of these operators commute with one another .
Since D and D' are both diagonalizable and they commute , they are simultaneously diagonalizable , and Af is diagonalizable .
Since N and N' are both nilpotent and they commute , the operator Af is nilpotent ; ;
for , using the fact that N and N' commute Af and so when R is sufficiently large every term in this expression for Af will be 0 .
Thus we see that Af and Af .
Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space over an algebraically closed field F , e.g. , the field of complex numbers .
Then every linear operator T in V can be written as the sum of a diagonalizable operator D and a nilpotent operator N which commute .
These operators D and N are unique and each is a polynomial in T .
In the primary decomposition theorem , it is not necessary that the vector space V be finite dimensional , nor is it necessary for parts ( A ) and ( B ) that P be the minimal polynomial for T .
If T is a linear operator on an arbitrary vector space and if there is a monic polynomial P such that Af , then parts ( A ) and ( B ) of Theorem 12 are valid for T with the proof which we gave .
Let N be a positive integer and let V be the space of all N times continuously differentiable functions F on the real line which satisfy the differential equation Af where Af are some fixed constants .
If Af denotes the space of N times continuously differentiable functions , then the space V of solutions of this differential equation is a subspace of Af .
If D denotes the differentiation operator and P is the polynomial Af then V is the null space of the operator p ( , ) , because Af simply says Af .
Let us now regard D as a linear operator on the subspace V .
If we are discussing differentiable complex-valued functions , then Af and V are complex vector spaces , and Af may be any complex numbers .
We now write Af where Af are distinct complex numbers .
If Af is the null space of Af , then Theorem 12 says that Af .
In other words , if F satisfies the differential equation Af , then F is uniquely expressible in the form Af where Af satisfies the differential equation Af .
Thus , the study of the solutions to the equation Af is reduced to the study of the space of solutions of a differential equation of the form Af .
It is very easy to establish by induction on R that if F is in Af then Af ; ;
Thus Af if and only if Af .
A function G such that Af , i.e. , Af , must be a polynomial function of degree Af or less : Af .
Thus F satisfies Af if and only if F has the form Af .
Accordingly , the ' functions ' Af span the space of solutions of Af .
Since Af are linearly independent functions and the exponential function has no zeros , these R functions Af , form a basis for the space of solutions .
The major question in this chapter is : What is the probability of exactly X successes in N trials ? ?
The word `` binomial '' means `` of two names '' or `` of two terms '' , and both usages apply in our work : the first to the names of the two outcomes of a binomial trial , and the second to the terms P and Af that represent the probabilities of `` success '' and `` failure '' .
Thus in the three-dice example Af , Af , and the independence assumption imply that the probability that the three dice fall ace , not-ace , ace in that order is Af .
Therefore , under independent voting , Af or 0.36 of the couples would cast two votes for picture A , and Af or 0.16 would cast two votes for picture B .
But Table 7-1 shows that Af or 0.70 agree , too many for independent voting .
Each performance of an n-trial binomial experiment results in some whole number from 0 through N as the value of the random variable X , where Af .
( For instance , see Example 2 of Section 5-5 , on red cards in hands of 5 .
A binomial experiment consists of Af independent binomial trials , all with the same probability Af of yielding a success .
The random variable X takes the values Af with probabilities Af or , more briefly Af .
We shall find a formula for the probability of exactly X successes for given values of P and N .
When each number of successes X is paired with its probability of occurrence Af , the set of pairs Af , is a probability function called a binomial distribution .
The choice of P and N determines the binomial distribution uniquely , and different choices always produce different distributions ( except when Af ; ;
Binomial distributions were treated by James Bernoulli about 1700 , and for this reason binomial trials are sometimes called Bernoulli trials .
Therefore each binomial trial can be thought of as producing a value of a random variable associated with that trial and taking the values 0 and 1 , with probabilities Q and P respectively .
Their sum is X , the total number of successes , which in this experiment has the value Af .
Consider a simple , closed , plane curve C which is a real-analytic image of the unit circle , and which is given by Af .
This theorem is similar to the theorem of Kakutani that there exists a circumscribing cube around any closed , bounded convex set in Af .
The latter theorem has been generalized by Yamabe and Yujobo , and Cairns to show that in Af there are families of such cubes .
A square inscribed in a curve C means a square with its four corner points on the curve , though it may not lie entirely in the interior of C .
On C , from the point P at Af to the point Q at Af , we construct the chord , and upon the chord as a side erect a square in such a way that as S approaches zero the square is inside C .
As S increases we consider the two free corner points of the square , Af and Af , adjacent to P and Q respectively .
As S approaches T the square will be outside C and therefore both Af and Af must cross C an odd number of times as S varies from zero to T .
Suppose Af crosses C when Af .
To each paired vertex and diagonal point there corresponds a unique forward corner point , i.e. , the corner on C reached first by proceeding along C from the vertex in the direction of increasing T .
If the vertex is at Af , and if the interior of C is on the left as one moves in the direction of increasing t , then every such corner can be found from the curve obtained by rotating C clockwise through 90-degrees about the vertex .
The set of intersections of Af , the rotated curve , with the original curve C consists of just the set of forward corner points on C corresponding to the vertex at Af , plus the vertex itself .
We note that two such curves C and Af , cannot coincide at more than a finite number of points ; ;
For the vertex at Af , these values will be denoted by Af .
We will refer to the plane of C and Af as the C-plane and to the plane of the graph as the Aj .
Each point with abscissa T on the graph represents an intersection between C and Af .
An ordinary point will be any point of intersection A such that in every neighborhood of A in the C-plane , Af meets both the interior and the exterior of C .
Any other point of intersection between C and Af will be called a tangent point .
With the vertex at Af in the C-plane we assume that Af is the parametric location on C of an ordinary intersection Q between C and Af .
We know that in the C-plane both C and Af are analytic .
In the C-plane we construct a set of rectangular Cartesian coordinates u , V with the origin at Q and such that both C and Af have finite slope at Q .
Near Q , both curves can be represented by analytic functions of U .
In a neighborhood of Q the difference between these functions is also a single-valued , analytic function of U .
Now , to find Af , one needs the intersection of C and Af near Q .
But Af is just the curve Af translated without rotation through a small arc , for Af is always obtained by rotating C through exactly 90-degrees .
Thus if E is sufficiently small , there can be only one intersection of C and Af near Q , for if there were more than one intersection for every E then the difference between C and Af near Q would not be a monotone function .
Therefore , Af is single-valued near Q .
It is also seen that Af , since the change from Af to Af is accomplished by a continuous translation .
Thus Af is also continuous at Af , and in a neighborhood of Af which does not contain a tangent point .
The fact that there can not be any limit points of the set except in closed intervals follows from the argument used in Lemma 1 , namely , that near any tangent point in the C-plane the curves C and Af are analytic , and therefore the difference between them must be a monotone function in some neighborhood on either side of the tangent point .
In some neighborhood of an isolated tangent point in the f-plane , say Af , the function Af is either double-valued or has no values defined , except at the tangent point itself , where it is single-valued .
A tangent point Q in the C-plane occurs when C and Af are tangent to one another .
A continuous change in T through an amount E results in a translation along an analytic arc of the curve Af .
There are three possibilities : ( A ) Af remains tangent to C as it is translated ; ;
( B ) Af moves away from C and does not intersect it at all for Af ; ;
( C ) Af cuts across C and there are two ordinary intersections for every T in Af .
The first possibility results in a closed interval of tangent points in the f-plane , the end points of which fall into category ( B ) or ( C ) .
In the second category the function Af has no values defined in a neighborhood Af .
For it is clear that the total number of ordinary intersections of C and Af must be even ( otherwise , starting in the interior of C , Af could not finally return to the interior ) , and the center of rotation at T is the argument of the function , not a value .
Therefore , for any value of T the number of values of f{t} is equal to the ( finite ) number of tangent points corresponding to the argument T plus an odd number .
The number of ordinary values of the function f{t} at T will be called its multiplicity at T .
Suppose Af is defined in the sub-interval Af .
Now Af and Af must both be tangent points on the T component in the f-plane ; ;
Further , we see by Lemma 2 that the multiplicity of F can only change at a tangent point , and at such a point can only change by an even integer .
Thus the multiplicity of Af for a given T must be an even number .
We must now show that on some component of the graph there exist two points for which the corresponding diagonal points in the C-plane are on opposite sides of C .
We again consider a fixed point P at Af and a variable point Q at Af on C .
We erect a square with PQ as a side and with free corners Af and Af adjacent to P and Q respectively .
As S varies from zero to T , the values of S for which Af and Af cross C will be denoted by Af and Af respectively .
The values Af are the ordinary values at Af of a multi-valued function g{t} which has components corresponding to those of f{t} .
We first define a function b{t} as follows : given the set of squares such that each has three corners on C and vertex at t , b{t} is the corresponding set of positive parametric differences between T and the backward corner points .
The functions F and B have exactly the same multiplicity at every argument T .
Now with P fixed at Af , Af-values occur when the corner Af crosses C , and are among the values of S such that Af .
The roots of this equation are just the ordinates of the intersections of the graph of B with a straight line of unit slope through Af in the b-plane ( the plane of the graph of b ) .
We define these values as Af , and define g{t} in the same way for each T .
Then in 2 we show that any line involution with the properties that ( A ) It has no complex of invariant lines , and ( B ) Its singular lines form a complex consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve , is necessarily of the type discussed in 1 .
Let Q be a nonsingular quadric surface bearing reguli Af and Af , and let **zg be a Af curve of order K on Q .
A general line L meets Q in two points , Af and Af , through each of which passes a unique generator of the regulus , Af , whose lines are simple secants of Aj .
On these generators let Af and Af be , respectively , the harmonic conjugates of Af and Af with respect to the two points in which the corresponding generator meets Aj .
The line Af is the image of L .
For if it did , the plane of L and l' would contain two generators of Af , which is impossible .
Moreover , from the definitive transformation of intercepts on the generators of Af , it is clear that the only points of Q at which a line can meet its image are the points of Aj .
Hence the totality of singular lines is the T order complex of lines which meet Aj .
The order of this congruence is Af , since Af secants of a curve of symbol ( B ) on a quadric surface pass through an arbitrary point .
The class of the congruence is Af , since an arbitrary plane meets **zg in K points .
Since the complex of singular lines is of order K and since there is no complex of invariant lines , it follows from the formula Af that the order of the involution is Af .
The most obvious of these is the quadratic complex of tangents to Q , each line of which is transformed into the entire pencil of lines tangent to Q at the image of the point of tangency of the given line .
For the lines of any plane , **yp , meeting Q in a conic C , are transformed into the congruence of secants of the curve C' into which C is transformed in the point involution on Q .
In particular , tangents to C are transformed into tangents to C' .
Moreover , if Af and Af are two planes intersecting in a line l , tangent to Q at a point P , the two free intersections of the image curves Af and Af must coincide at P' , the image of P , and at this point Af and Af must have a common tangent l' .
Hence , thought of as a line in a particular plane **yp , any tangent to Q has a unique image and moreover this image is the same for all planes through L .
Each generator , **yl , of Af is also exceptional , for each is transformed into the entire congruence of secants of the curve into which that generator is transformed by the point involution on Q .
This curve is of symbol Af since it meets **yl , and hence every line of Af in the Af invariant points on **yl and since it obviously meets every line of Af in a single point .
The congruence of its secants is therefore of order Af and class Af .
A final class of exceptional lines is identifiable from the following considerations : Since no two generators of Af can intersect , it follows that their image curves can have no free intersections .
Now the only way in which all curves of the image family of Af can pass through a fixed point is to have a generator of Af which is not a secant but a tangent of **zg , for then any point on such a generator will be transformed into the point of tangency .
Since two curves of symbol Af on Q intersect in Af points , it follows that there are Af lines of Af which are tangent to Aj .
Clearly , any line , l , of any bundle having one of these points of tangency , T , as vertex will be transformed into the entire pencil having the image of the second intersection of L and Q as vertex and lying in the plane determined by the image point and the generator of Af which is tangent to **zg at T .
A line through two of these points , Af and Af , will be transformed into the entire bilinear congruence having the tangents to **zg at Af and Af as directrices .
A conic , C , being a ( 1 , 1 ) curve on Q , meets the image of any line of Af , which we have already found to be a Af curve on Q , in Af points .
Hence its image , C' , meets any line of Af in Af points .
Moreover , C' obviously meets any line Af in a single point .
Hence C' is a Af curve on Q .
Therefore , the congruence of its secants , that is the image of a general plane field of lines , is of order Af and class Af .
Finally , the image of a general bundle of lines is a congruence whose order is the order of the congruence of invariant lines , namely Af and whose class is the order of the image congruence of a general plane field of lines , namely Af .
To do this we must first show that every line which meets **zg in a point P meets its image at P .
By ( 1 ) , the image of this pencil is a ruled surface of order Af which is met by the plane of the pencil in a curve , C , of order Af .
On C there is a Af correspondence in which the Af points cut from C by a general line , l , of the pencil correspond to the point of intersection of the image of L and the plane of the pencil .
Since C is rational , this correspondence has K coincidences , each of which implies a line of the pencil which meets its image .
To avoid this contradiction it is necessary that C be composite , with the secant of **zg and a curve of order Af as components .
But if this is the case , then an arbitrary pencil of lines having a point , P , of **zg as vertex is transformed into a ruled surface of order Af having Af generators concurrent at P .
Since a ruled surface of order N with N concurrent generators is necessarily a cone , it follows finally that every line through a point , P , of **zg meets its image at P , as asserted .
Moreover , in this involution there is a cone of invariant lines of order Af , namely the cone of secants of **zg which pass through P .
Hence it follows that the involution within the bundle must be a perspective De Jonquieres involution of order Af and the invariant locus must have a multiple line of multiplicity either Af or Af .
The first possibility requires that there be a line through P which meets **zg in Af points ; ;
Hence **zg must have either a regulus of Af-fold secants or a regulus of Af-fold secants .
But if no two lines of the regulus of multiple secants of **zg can intersect , then the regulus must be quadratic , or in other words , **zg must be either a Af or a Af curve on a nonsingular quadric surface .
We now observe that the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric is impossible if the complex of singular lines consists exclusively of the lines which meet Aj .
For any pencil in a plane containing a Af-fold secant of **zg has an image regulus which meets the plane of the pencil in Af lines , namely the images of the lines of the pencil which pass through the intersection of **zg and the multiple secant , plus an additional component to account for the intersections of the images of the general lines of the pencil .
Continuing with the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric Q , we first observe that the second regulus of Q consists precisely of the lines which join the two free intersections of **zg and the planes through any one of the multiple secants .
Now consider an arbitrary line , l , meeting Q in two points , Af and Af .
If **ya is the multiple secant of **zg which passes through Af and **yb is the simple secant of **zg which passes through Af , and if Af are the points in which **ya meets **zg , and if Af is the image of Af on the generator **yb , it follows that the image of the line Af is Af .
The United States can help by communicating a genuine concern with the problems these countries face and a readiness to provide technical and other appropriate forms of assistance where possible .
When we look at countries like Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , and Burma , where substantial progress has been made in creating a minimum supply of modern men and of social overhead capital , and where institutions of centralized government exist , we find a second category of countries with a different set of problems and hence different priorities for policy .
Efforts such as the Community Development Program in the Philippines have demonstrated that transitional societies can work toward balanced national development .
By holding out prospects for external capital assistance , the United States can provide strong incentives to prepare for the concerted economic drive necessary to achieve self-sustaining growth .
At a third stage in the modernization process are such countries as India , Brazil , the Philippines , and Taiwan , which are ready and committed to move into the stage of self-sustaining growth .
even the famed Indian Civil Service is not fully adequate to the tremendous range of tasks it has undertaken .
Even in the United States , with its freedom of religious belief and worship and its vast denominational differentiation , there is a general consensus regarding the basic Christian values .
This something leads to a conception of an over-all Social Plan with a meaning interpretable in terms of ultimate ends ; ;
for example , a plan that fulfills the will of God , which advances the Kingdom of God , which involves social life as part of the Grand Design .
This is brought out in the common religious ethos that prevails even in the denominationally diverse audiences at many secular semi-public and public occasions in the United States ; ;
Soon Mrs. B.'s fears threatened to burst into a full-blown panic concerning the welfare of the entire family .
Direct confrontation and acceptance of Mrs. B.'s anger against the second baby soon dissipated her fears of annihilation .
In a joint interview Mr. and Mrs. B. were helped to understand the meaning of a younger son's wandering away from home in terms of his feelings of displacement in reaction to the arrival of the twins .
Almost three decades ago Bertha Reynolds undertook a study of short-contact interviewing because of her conviction that short-term casework had an important but neglected place in our network of social services .
As Loomis remarks , `` In the internal pattern the chief reason for interacting is to communicate liking , friendship , and love among those who stand in supporting relations to one another and corresponding negative sentiments to those who stand in antagonistic relations '' .
Prior to World War 2 , there was a higher percentage of endogamous marriages than after World War 2 .
In this respect it would seem that the greater the social distance between the Brandywine population and the white and Negro populations within the same general locality , the greater the possibility for higher morale and solidarity within the Brandywine population .
A royal decree issued in 1910 , two years after the Belgian government assumed authority for the administration of the Congo , prescribed the registration of all adult males by chiefdoms .
General responsibility for its administration rested with a division of the colonial government concerned with labor supply and native affairs , Service des Affaires Indigenes et de la Main-d'Oeuvre ( AIMO , Af Direction , Af Direction Generale , Gouvernement Generale ) .
The scheme , in theory , is an ingenious adaptation of European registration systems to the conditions of African life .
Before considering more recent activities , we should note another important aspect of demography in Belgian Africa .
A number of strong independent agencies , established in some cases with governmental or royal support , have conducted large medical , social , educational and research operations in particular parts of the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi .
The work of Fonds Reine Elisabeth pour l'Assistance Medicale aux Indigenes Du Congo Belge ( FOREAMI ) has special interest with respect to demography .
This agency accepted responsibility for medical services to a population ranging from 638,560 persons in 1941 to 840,503 in 1956 in the Kwango District and adjacent areas east of Leopoldville .
Its findings are reported each year in its Rapport Sur l'activite Pendant annee ( Bruxelles ) .
L'Institut pour La Recherche Scientifique En Afrique Centrale ( IRSAC ) has sponsored well-designed field investigations and has cooperated closely with the government of Ruanda-Urundi in the development of its official statistics .
A massive investigation of the characteristics of in-migrants and prospective out-migrants in Ruanda-Urundi is being carried on by J. J. Maquet , former Director of the Social Science branch of IRSAC , now a professor at l'Universite Officielle Du Congo Belge et Du Ruanda-Urundi .
Statistics have been recognized as a matter of strategic importance in the Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi during the post-war years in connection with long-term economic and social programs .
A Bureau De La Demographie ( A. Romaniuk , Director ) was formed under AIMO in the Congo , to work in close rapport with the Section Statistique of the Secretariat General .
Eventually responsibility for demographic inquiries in the Congo was transferred to the demographic division of the Central Statistical Office .
The 1952 demographic inquiry in Ruanda-Urundi was directed by V. Neesen , a member of the IRSAC staff , though the inquiry was carried out under the auspices of AIMO , which has continuing responsibility for demographic statistics in this territory .
A member of the IRSAC staff ( E. Van De Walle ) was recently delegated to cooperate with AIMO in the development of demographic statistics in this territory .
In the reports , summary results are given for both the de facto ( A and C ) and de jure ( A and B ) populations ; ;
Reports already issued on the sampling census , 1955 - 57 , in various areas run as follows ( using only the French and omitting corresponding Flemish titles ) .
Had I been in an all-married section I would have missed this , and I believe that this single aspect has been of great personal value to me '' .
Guilford-Martin ) were filled out by 12 of the Kohnstamm-positive subjects and 19 of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects .
Some predictions had been made concerning factors R , N , I and Co on these inventories which appeared to be directly related to control and security aspects of personality functioning which were hypothesized as being of importance in differential Kohnstamm reactivity .
Only Co differentiated between the two groups at less than the 5% level ( Af ) .
It was predicted that those who shifted in their Kohnstamm reactivity would differ significantly from those who did not on the factor I which the investigators refer to as the `` Inferiority '' factor .
All of the subjects in the Kohnstamm-negative and Kohnstamm-positive groups ( as defined for purposes of the personality studies ) were compared with those subjects who shifted in Conditions 3 , or 4 .
Individual differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to controlled Kohnstamm situations were found among the subjects used in the study .
The positive Kohnstamm reactivity in Condition 1 ( ( the naive state ) is not adequately explained by such a concept as suggestibility ( if suggestibility is defined as the influence on behavior by verbal cues ) .
Moreover , when the experimenter did inform those subjects that there were some normal people who did not have their arm rise once they relaxed , the Kohnstamm-positive subjects were uninfluenced in their subsequent reactions to the Kohnstamm situation .
A differential suggestibility would have to be invoked to explain the failure of this additional information to influence the Kohnstamm-positive reactors and yet attribute their naive Kohnstamm reactivity to suggestion .
Many subjects attributed differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to differences in degrees of subjective control -- voluntary as the Kohnstamm-positive subjects perceived it and involuntary as the Kohnstamm-negative subjects perceived it .
One subject spontaneously asked ( after her arm had finally risen ) , `` Do you suppose I was unconsciously keeping it down before '' ? ?
In contrast to this voluntary-control explanation for nonreactivity given by the Kohnstamm-positive subjects , the Kohnstamm-negative subjects offered an involuntary-control hypothesis to explain nonreactivity .
One Kohnstamm-positive subject who had both arms rise while being tested in the naive condition described her subjective experience as follows : `` You feel they're going up and you're on a stage and it's not right for them to do so and then you think maybe that's what's supposed to happen '' .
It is our hypothesis that Kohnstamm-positive subjects are less hesitant about relinquishing control than are Kohnstamm-negative subjects ; ;
Castaneda , et al revised the Taylor Anxiety Scale for use with children .
The Taylor Scale was adapted from the Minnesota Multiphastic Personality Inventory , with item selection based upon clinical definitions of anxiety .
Reliability and validation work with the Children's Anxiety Scale by Castaneda , et al demonstrated results closely similar to the findings with the adult scale .
Although the Taylor Scale was designed as a group testing device , in this study it was individually administered by psychologically trained workers who established rapport and assisted the children in reading the items .
The Stanford Achievement Test , Form J , was administered by classroom teachers , consisting of a battery of six sub-tests : Paragraph Meaning , Word Meaning , Spelling , Language , Arithmetic Computation , and Arithmetic Reasoning .
All of these sub-tests involve reading except Arithmetic Computation .
The Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children was administered to each sample third-grade child by a clinical worker .
He was told he displayed , for example , a sense of superiority -- and he answered : `` Well , I am supposed to know all the answers , aren't I '' ? ?
Eventually such incidents became more sporadic , and more sharply demarcated from her day-after-day behavior , and in one particular session , after several minutes of such behavior -- which , as usual , went on without any accompanying words from her -- she asked , eagerly , `` Did you see Granny '' ? ?
Then I realized that she had been deliberately showing me , this time , what Granny was like ; ;
Again , I at first misconstrued this disconcertingly intense communication , and I quickly cast through my mind to account for her being able to speak , with such utter conviction , of an opinion held by my father , now several years deceased .
Then I replied , coldly , `` If you despise me , why don't you say so , directly '' ? ?
For example , one hebephrenic man used to annoy me , month after month , by saying , whenever I got up to leave and made my fairly steoreotyped comment that I would be seeing him on the following day , or whenever , `` You're welcome '' , in a notably condescending fashion -- as though it were his due for me to thank him for the privilege of spending the hour with him , and he were thus pointing up my failure to utter a humbly grateful , `` thank you '' to him at the end of each session .
Eventually it became clear to me , partly with the aid of another schizophrenic patient who could point out my condescension to me somewhat more directly , that this man , with his condescending , `` You're welcome '' , was very accurately personifying an element of obnoxious condescension which had been present in my own demeanor , over these months , on each of these occasions when I had bid him good-bye with the consoling note , each time , that the healing Christ would be stooping to dispense this succor to the poor sufferer again on the morrow .
This behavior on her part subsided only after I had come to see the uncomfortably close similarity between , on the one hand , her arranging the ventilation of the common living room to her own liking , or turning the television off or on without regard to the wishes of the others , and on the other hand , my own coming stolidly into her room despite her persistent and vociferous objections , bringing my big easy chair with me , usually shutting the windows of her room which she preferred to keep in a very cold state , and plunking myself down in my chair -- in short , behaving as if I owned her room .
When the therapist came to feel on sufficiently sure ground with him to ask him , `` What is that , Bill -- hello or farewell '' ? ?
Freeman , Cameron and McGhie , in their description of the disturbances of thinking found in chronic schizophrenic patients , say , in regard to condensation , that `` the lack of adequate discrimination between the self and the environment , and the objects contained therein in itself is the prototypical condensation '' .
Recently , for example , a paranoid woman's large-scale philosophizing , in the session , about the intrusive curiosity which has become , in her opinion , a deplorable characteristic of mid-twentieth-century human culture , developed itself , before the end of the session , into a suspicion that I was surreptitiously peeking at her partially exposed breast , as indeed I was .
When an occurrence Af is isolated during text reading , a random memory address Af , the address of a cell in the X-region , is computed from the form of Af .
Let Af denote the form of Af .
If cell Af has not previously been assigned as the information cell of a form in the text-form list , it is now assigned as the information cell of Af .
The form itself is stored in the next available cells of the W-region , beginning in cell Af .
The address Af and the number of cells required to store the form are written in Af ; ;
Let us assume that Af is identical to the form of an occurrence Af which preceded Af in the text .
When this situation exists , the address Af will equal Af which was produced from Af .
If Af was assigned as the information cell for Af , the routine can detect that Af is identical to Af by comparing Af with the form stored at location Af .
The address Af is stored in the cell Af .
When , as in this case , the two forms match , the address Af is saved to represent the occurrence Af .
If Af leads to an address Af that is equal to the address computed from Af , even though Af does not match Af , the chain of information cells is extended from Af by storing the address of the next available cell in the Y-region , Af , in Af .
The cell Af becomes the second information cell in the chain and is assigned as the information cell of Af .
A third cell can be added by storing the address of another Y-cell in Af ; ;
Hence , when the address Af is computed from Af , the cell Af and all Y-cells in its chain must be inspected to determine whether Af is already in the form list or whether it should be added to the form list and the chain .
When the information cell for Af has been determined , it is saved as a representation of Af .
A random address Af that lies within the X-region of memory mentioned earlier is computed from the i-th dictionary form .
If cell Af is an information cell , it and any information cells in the Y-region that have been linked to Af each contain an address in the W-region where a potentially matching form is stored .
The list of text forms in the W-region of memory and the contents of the information cells in the X and Y-regions are no longer required .
Thus the first lines of one of Charles Wesley's hymns are as follows .
`` A charge to keep I have , A God to glorify '' .
In I'll go with George dominant stress is probably on George ; ;
If both George and a piece of information George does not have are prominent in the context , but the idea of telling George is new , then dominant stress will probably be on tell in why not tell George ? ?
In is she Chinese or Japanese ? ?
The desire to contrast the first parts of words which are alike in their last components produces an exceptional disregard of the normal patterns of stress of Chinese and Japanese .
Thus in Mary wrote an account of the trip first strong stress on Mary marks Mary as the first in a series of people who wrote accounts of the trip , strong stress on wrote marks the writing as the first of a series of actions of Mary's concerned with an account of her trip ( about which she may later have made speeches , for example ) , and strong stress on trip makes the trip the first of a series of subjects about which Mary wrote accounts .
In Mack's the leader at camp , but Jack is here the is of the second main declarative represents is the leader and therefore has stress .
When go represents itself and a complement ( being equivalent , say , to go to Martinique ) in which boat did Jack go on ? ?
Thus to has light stress both in that was the conclusion that I came to and in that was the conclusion I came to .
But when to represents to consciousness in that was the moment that I came to , and similarly in that was the moment I came to , there is much stronger stress on to .
In I wanted to tell him , but I was afraid to the final to is lightly stressed because it represents to tell him .
When I have instructions to leave is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions that I am to leave this place , dominant stress is ordinarily on leave .
When the same sequence is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions which I am to leave , dominant stress is ordinarily on instructions .
In the first of these sentences if by is the complement of come and Tuesday is an adjunct of time equivalent to on Tuesday , there will be strong stress on by in the spoken language ; ;
In the Steiners have busy lives without visiting relatives only context can indicate whether visiting relatives is equivalent in meaning to paying visits to relatives or to relatives who are visiting them , and in I looked up the number and I looked up the chimney only the meanings of number and chimney make it clear that up is syntactically a second complement in the first sentence and a preposition followed by its object in the second .
A third explanation is suggested by Richardson's analysis of Sukuma tone .
A. E. Sharp , in Vowel-Length And Syllabicity In Kikuyu , examines one set of related orthographic questions and its phonologic background in detail .
One other paper deals with a phonologic problem : Vowel Harmony In Igbo , by J. Carnochan .
W. H. Whiteley writes on The Verbal Radical In Iraqw .
This must be considered primarily an amendment and supplement to his early A Short Description Of Item-Categories In Iraqw .
There are more stems per item in Athabascan , which expresses the fact that the Athabascan languages have undergone somewhat more change in diverging from proto-Athabascan than the Yokuts languages from proto-Yokuts .
The differentiation , however , is not very much greater , as shown by the fact that Athabascan shows 3.46 stems per meaning slot as against 2.75 for Yokuts , with a slightly greater number of languages represented in our sample : 24 as against 21 .
These differences in turn result from the fact that my Yokuts vocabularies were built up of terms selected mainly to insure unambiguity of English meaning between illiterate informants and myself , within a compact and uniform territorial area , but that Hoijer's vocabulary is based on Swadesh's second glottochronological list which aims at eliminating all items which might be culturally or geographically determined .
I , one that was specifically adapted to the San Joaquin Valley .
The result is that I included 70 animal names , but Swadesh only 4 ; ;
Other classes are included only by myself ( interrogatives , adverbs ) or only by Swadesh and Hoijer ( pronouns , demonstratives ) .
It will be seen that where the scope is similar , the Athabascan ratios come out somewhat higher ( as indeed they ought to with a total ratio of 2.8 as against 3.5 or 4 : 5 ) except for verbs , where alone the Athabascan ratio is lower .
Hoijer's Athabascan and my Yokuts share 71 identical meanings ( with allowance for several near-synonyms like stomach-belly , big-large , long-far , many-much , die-dead , say-speak ) .
For Yokuts , I tabulated these 71 items in five columns , according as they were expressed by 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and more than 4 stems .
In 1960 , David D. Thomas published Basic Vocabulary In some Mon-Khmer Languages ( AL 2 , No. 3 , pp. 7 - 11 ) , which compares 8 Mon-Khmer languages with the I-E language data on which Swadesh based the revised retention rate ( Af ) in place of original ( Af ) , and his revised 100 word basic glottochronological list in Towards Greater Accuracy ( IJAL 21 : :
His first conclusion , on behavior of individual items , is negative , whereas mine ( on Ath. and Yok. ) was partially positive .
I was at least conscious of the distinction in my full Yokuts presentation that awaits publication , in which , in listing ' Two-Stem Meanings ' , I set off by asterisks those forms in which N of stem B was Af of stem A/3 , the unasterisked ones standing for Af ; ;
or under ' Four Stems ' , I set off by asterisks cases where the combined N of stems Af was Af .
Had Hoijer substituted for his 15 adjectival slots 15 good animal and plant items , his rate of stem replacement would have been lower and the age of Athabascan language separation smaller .
He has announced results on Hokan , Penutian , Uto-Aztecan , and almost all other American families and phyla , and has diagrammed their degree of interrelation ; ;
of acquiring evidential knowledge of what happened in Athabascan , in Yokuts , in Uto-Aztecan in the last few thousand years as well as forecasting what more anciently may have happened between them .
If of the founders of glottochronology Swadesh has escaped our steady plodding , and Lees has repudiated his own share in the founding , that is no reason why we should swerve .
It was nevertheless almost incredible that four years after Yalta there should be a complete split over Germany , with hot heads on both sides planning to use the Germans against their former allies , and with Nazi-minded Germans expecting to recover their power by fighting on one side or the other .
When the Yalta Conference opened , the American policy of postponing all discussion of Russia's western boundaries until the peace conference had broken down .
Starting in great force late in December , from a line stretching from East Prussia to Budapest , the Red armies had swept two hundred miles across Poland to the Oder , thirty miles from Berlin , and the Upper Danube region was being rapidly overrun , while the Western Allies had not yet occupied all of the left bank of the Rhine .
The long delay in opening the Second Front was now working to Russia's advantage .
The West was now glad to propose the 1919 Curzon Line , which was substantially Russia's 1941 border , as the boundary between Russia and Poland .
When this proposal was made , Stalin spoke with stronger emotion than at any other time during the Conference .
The bitter memory of Russia's exclusion from the Paris Peace Conference and of the West's effort to stamp out Bolshevism at its birth boiled up within him .
The White Russians and the Ukrainians would say that Stalin and Molotov were far less reliable defenders of Russia than Curzon and Clemenceau .
Yet after long and earnest discussion Stalin accepted the Curzon Line and even agreed voluntarily that there should be digressions from that line of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland in some regions .
He did not mind the Line itself , which Churchill declared in the House of Commons , on February 27 , 1945 , he had always believed to be `` just and right '' , but he did not want it called by a hated name .
The West had long since forgotten the events of 1919 , but it was not so easy for the Red leaders , who felt that they had suffered great injustice in that period .
In the Dunn-Atherton memorandum of February 4 , 1942 , the State Department had expected to be able to hold Russia in check by withholding agreement to her 1941 boundaries .
Now Stalin made it clear that he meant to move Poland's western borders deep into Germany , back to the western Neisse-Oder River lines , taking not only East Prussia and all of Silesia but Pomerania and the tip of Brandenburg , back to and including Stettin .
From six to nine million additional Germans would be evicted , though most would have fled , and Poland would receive far more from Germany than the poor territories , including the great Pripet Marshes , which she lost to Russia .
Stalin declared that he preferred to continue the war a little longer , `` although it costs us blood '' , in order to give Poland compensation in the West at the expense of the Germans .
By this time Churchill was not so cordial toward moving Poland westward as he had been at Teheran , where he and Eden had both heartily approved the idea .
After `` a prolonged study of the Oder line on a map '' , at Teheran , Churchill `` liked the picture '' .
At Yalta he thought more about the six million Germans who would have to leave , trying to find work in Germany , and Roosevelt objected to the Western Neisse River being chosen in the south , instead of the Eastern Neisse , both of which flow into the Oder .
However , there was no real question of the justice of creating a strong Poland , both industrially and agriculturally , and one unplagued by large minorities of Germans or Russians .
The moving of millions of the German master-race , from the very heart of Junkerdom , to make room for the Polish Slavs whom they had enslaved and openly planned to exterminate was a drastic operation , but there was little doubt that it was historically justified .
Of more importance to the West than Poland's boundaries was the character of her government .
At Yalta the West still believed that Eastern Europe could be kept in its orbit , in spite of the onrushing Soviet armies .
Though little democracy had ever been practised in this region , and much of it was still ruled by feudalistic means , it was taken for granted that at least the forms of Western democracy would be established in this area and Western capitalism preserved within it .
Believing devoutly as they did in Anglo-Saxon institutions , it was important to both Roosevelt and Churchill that the Poles should have them .
The issue was acute because the exiled Polish Government in London , supported in the main by Britain , was still competing with the new Lublin Government formed behind the Red Army .
The result was an agreement that the Lublin Government should be `` reorganized on a broader democratic basis with the inclusion of democratic leaders from Poland itself and from the Poles abroad '' , and pledged to hold `` free and unfettered elections as soon as possible on the basis of universal suffrage and secret ballot '' .
It was a matter of principle with Churchill , since Britain had declared war in behalf of Poland .
Speaking with `` great earnestness '' , he said : `` For the Russian people , the question of Poland is not only a question of honor but also a question of security .
Throughout history , Poland has been the corridor through which the enemy has passed into Russia .
It is in Russia's interest that Poland should be strong and powerful , in a position to shut the door of this corridor by her own force .
In other words , the Soviet Union was determined to create a Poland so strong as to be a powerful bulwark against Germany and so closely tied to Russia that there would never be any question of her serving as a cordon sanitaire against the Soviets or posing as an independent , balancing power in between Russia and Germany .
Byrnes says that invariably thereafter the Soviets used the same security argument to justify their course in Poland .
Any free elections that were to be held in Poland would have to produce a government in which Moscow had complete confidence , and all pressure from the West for free voting by anti-Soviet elements in Poland would be met by restrictions on voting by these elements .
In even greater degree the same rule applied to the remainder of Eastern Europe , where the upper classes had generally collaborated with the Nazis , even to the extent of sending millions of their peasants into Russia as a part of Hitler's armies .
But at Yalta the conflicting expectations of East and West were merged into an agreement by the Big Three to assist all liberated countries in Europe `` to create democratic institutions of their own choice '' .
Other similar affirmations in the Declaration on Liberated Europe seemed to assure democratic institutions on the Western model .
Later it developed that the Soviets had a very different interpretation of democracy , which will be discussed later , and their judgment never told them that the Big Three should unite in establishing democratic conditions , as we understand them , within their zone of influence .
Professor McNeill thinks that at Yalta , Stalin did not fully realize the dilemma which faced him , that he thought the exclusion of the anti-Soviet voters from East European elections would not be greatly resented by his allies , while neither Roosevelt nor Churchill frankly faced `` the fact that , in Poland at least , genuinely free democratic elections would return governments unfriendly to Russia '' , by any definition of international friendliness .
Also war-time propaganda and cooperation had `` obscured the differences between Russian and Western ideas of democracy '' , and it seemed better to have them covered by verbal formulae than to imperil the military victories over Germany and Japan .
While obliged to concede governments in East Europe allied with the Soviet Union instead of opposed to it , we thought we had preserved our social and economic system in East Europe .
This illusion was described in a far-sighted editorial in The New York Herald Tribune , on March 5 , 1947 , in connection with the submission of the satellite peace treaties to the Senate .
In doing so Marshall and Byrnes were `` asking for the ratification of a grim lesson in the facts of international life '' .
`` We were troubled about the fate of the Baltic States .
Yalta left us with comforting illusions of a Western capitalist-democratic political economy reigning supreme up to the Curzon line and the borders of Bessarabia '' ( Italics added )
This is a penetrating description of our post-war illusion , which applied to other areas than East Europe .
The same editorial continued that `` We expected to democratize Japan and Korea and to see a new China pattern itself easily on our institutions .
We expected , in short , that most of the world would make itself over in our image and that it would be relatively simple , from such a position , to deal with the localized aberrations of the Soviet Union '' .
Neither our military , our economic nor our ideological power reached far enough '' to determine the fate of East Europe .
Here is the best short explanation of the origins of the Cold War that has been written .
Failing to heed the lesson so clearly contained in the satellite treaties , President Truman re-declared the Cold War on March 12 , 1947 , in the Truman Doctrine , exactly one week after the Herald Tribune editorial was written , and a year after the Cold War had been announced by Churchill at Fulton , Missouri , in Truman's presence .
Then China promptly went Communist , and Mr. Truman had to fight the interminable Korean war for the democratization of Korea before we learned how far our writ did `` reach in Asia '' .
of heavy arms expenditures and constant danger of another world war had to ensue before the United States could bring itself to accept the two chief results of World War 2 , -- Communist control of East Europe and China -- a new balance of power .
While the Cold War raged it was easy to blame it all on Yalta .
Yet , in summarizing a series of careful essays on the Yalta Conference , Forrest Pogue could find no basis for Yalta becoming `` a symbol for betrayal and a shibboleth for the opponents of Roosevelt and international cooperation '' .
When the Yalta Papers were finally published with great fanfare they had revealed no betrayal by anyone .
They were stressed in the speeches of Si Mubarak Bekkai when the first Council of Ministers was formed and again when the Istiqlal took a leading role in the second Council .
King Muhammad 5 , was known to be most sympathetic to the formation of local self-government and made the first firm promise of elections on May Day , 1957 .
There followed a long and sometimes bitter discussion of the feasibility of elections for the fall of 1957 , in which it appears that the Minister of the Interior took the most pessimistic view and that the Istiqlal was something less than enthusiastic .
Until the Charter of Liberties was issued in the fall of 1958 , there were no guarantees of the right to assemble or to organize for political purposes .
The Istiqlal was still firmly united in 1957 , but the P.D.I. ( Parti Democratique de l'Independance ) , the most important minor party at the time , objected to the Istiqlal's predominance in the civil service and influence in Radio Maroc .
There were rumors that the Ministry of the Interior favored an arbitrary , `` non-political '' process , which were indirectly affirmed when the King personally intervened in the planned meetings .
The Ifni crisis in the fall of 1957 postponed further consideration of elections , but French consultants were called in and notices of further investigation appeared from time to time .
In January , 1958 , the Minister of the Interior announced that an election law was ready to be submitted to the King , the rumors of election dates appeared once again , first for spring of 1958 and later for the summer .
In late 1957 the M.P. ( Mouvement Populaire ) appeared and in the spring of 1958 the internal strains of the Istiqlal was revealed when the third Council of Government under Balafrej was formed without support from progressive elements in the party .
They figured prominently in the Balafrej government of May , 1958 , which the King was reportedly determined to keep in office until elections could be held .
But the eagerly sought `` homogeneity '' of the Balafrej Council of Government was never achieved as the Istiqlal quarreled over foreign policy , labor politics and economic development .
By December , 1958 , when ' Abdallah Ibrahim became President of the Council , elections had even greater importance .
To minimize the chances of repeating the Balafrej debacle the Ibrahim government was formed .
A titre personnel and a special office was created in the Ministry of the Interior to plan and to conduct the elections .
Both parties and the Ministry of the Interior were busily at work after the elections trying to unearth the political affiliations of the successful candidates and , thereby , give the elections a confidential but known degree of national political significance .
Interesting evidence can be found in the results of the Chamber of Commerce elections , which took place three weeks before national elections .
The Istiqlal-sponsored U.M.C.I.A. ( L'Union Marocaine Des Commercants , Industrialistes et Artisans ) was opposed by candidates of the new U.N.F.P. ( L'Union National Des Forces Populaires ) in nearly all urban centers .
The local Istiqlal and U.M.C.I.A. offices did not campaign and lost heavily .
The Chamber of Commerce elections were , of course , an important event in the preparation for rural commune elections .
The P.D.I. and later the Popular Movement protected the Istiqlal's `` privileged position '' until the fall of Balafrej , and then the Istiqlal used the same argument , which it had previously ignored , against the pro-U.N.F.P. tendencies of the Ibrahim government .
The bulk of the preparation had , of course , proceeded under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior , whose officials are barred from party activity and probably generally disinterested in party politics .
Apart from some areas of recurring trouble , like Bani Mellal , where inexperienced officials had been appointed , there is little evidence that local officials intervened in the electoral process .
The King decided to remove Ibrahim a week before elections and to institute a non-party Council of Government under his personal direction .
The new Council was itself inescapably of political meaning , which was most clearly revealed in the absence of any U.N.F.P. members and the presence of several Istiqlal leaders .
Voter registration began in late November 1959 and continued until early January , 1960 .
The present Federal program of vocational education began in 1917 with the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act , which provided a continuing annual appropriation of $7 million to support , on a matching basis , state-administered programs of vocational education in agriculture , trades , industrial skills and home economics .
The George-Barden Act of 1946 raised the previous increases in annual authorizations to $29 million in addition to the $7 million under the Smith Act .
The Health Amendment Act of 1956 added $5 million for practical nurse training .
The latest major change in this program was introduced by the National Defense Education Act of 1958 , Title 8 , of which amended the George-Barden Act .
Throughout the history of the program , state government expenditures in the aggregate have usually matched or exceeded the Federal expenditures , while local districts all together have spent more than either Federal or state governments .
During World War 2 , about 7.5 million persons were enrolled in courses organized under two special programs administered by state and local school authorities : ( 1 ) Vocational Education for National Defense , and ( 2 ) War Production Training .
For the Smith-Hughes , George-Barden , and National Defense Act of 1958 , the cumulative total of Federal expenditures in 42 years was only about $740 million .
The National Manpower Council of Columbia University has estimated that three out of five skilled workers and one out of five technicians have not been formally trained .
In Illinois about 13 per cent of the schools have programs , and in Pennsylvania 11 per cent .
For a number of years Kentucky , Louisiana and several other states have been building state-sponsored vocational education schools that serve nearby school districts in several counties .
The Title 8 , program of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 was a great spur to this trend toward area schools .
While the U. S. Department of Labor has a program of projecting industry and occupational employment trends and publishing current outlook statements , there is little tangible evidence that these projections have been used extensively in local curriculum planning .
The U. S. Office of Education continues to stress local surveys rather than national surveys .
A further possibility is suggested by the example of the G. I. bills and also by some recent trends in attitudes toward improving college education : that is to provide financial assistance to individuals for vocational training when local facilities are inadequate .
This probably would require some support for subsistence as well as for tuition , but the total would be no greater than for the proposals of unemployment compensation or a Youth Conservation Corps .
Much of this goes on in offices high up in Wall Street's lofty wind-swept towers .
And along Chicago's West Jackson Boulevard , La Salle Street , and around the Merchandise Mart Plaza there sit men who chart crop reports , who divide the number of reported lady-bugs by the number of reported green-bugs , and the number of hogs by the amount of corn .
They plot the open interest curves , rainfall curves , and they even divide Democratic congressmen by Republican congressmen .
Mr. John Magee , whose work has been discussed in this chapter , was quoted in a New Yorker Magazine profile as saying : `` Of course , you have to remember it's a good thing for us chartists that there aren't more of us .
Mr. Alexander H. Wheelan's Study Helps In Point And Figure Technique tells the readers : `` We assure you that the total number of people using this method of market analysis is a very small portion of the sum total of those operating in the securities and commodities markets '' .
The 2% increase in retail sales in October to a 4-month high is encouraging in this connection as well as the most recent consumer survey by the National Industrial Conference Board , which shows a decided pickup in consumer spending plans .
If the trend of general business activity follows the pattern suggested here , we are likely to see additional steps by the Federal Reserve authorities to ease the availability of credit .
One of the most intriguing questions is whether the recent departures of the Federal Reserve authorities from confining their open market operations to Treasury bills will spread into longer-term Government securities in the next few months .
To the extent that the new Administration has its wishes , the Federal Reserve would conduct its open market operations throughout the entire maturity range of Government securities and aggressively seek to force down long-term interest rates .
The principle of `` bills only '' , or `` bills preferably '' , seems so strongly accepted by the Federal Reserve that it is difficult to envision conditions which would persuade the authorities to depart radically from it by extending their open market purchases regularly into long-term Government securities .
It is pertinent to ask the question : Has the long upswing of interest rates during the past 15 years just about run its course , and are we now entering a period in which both capital market forces and Federal policies will produce a prolonged decline of interest rates ? ?
My answer is in the negative because I believe that total capital demands during the Sixties will continue to press against available supplies , and interest rates will generally tend to be firm at high levels .
This view is based upon several basic economic forces which I believe will be operating in the Sixties , as follows : ( 1 )
Recent events in the General Assembly of the United Nations confirm that the cold war will remain with us , and probably intensify , for the foreseeable future .
We are just beginning the task of trying to win or maintain the friendship of the new African nations against the ruthless competition of the Communist bloc .
Our efforts to overcome the lead of the Russians in space are bound to mean accelerated Federal spending .
Moreover , it is likely that Federal policies aimed at stimulating a faster rate of economic growth of the country , to keep ahead of the Communist countries and to demonstrate that our free economic system is better than theirs , will lead to rising Federal spending in certain areas such as education , housing , medical aid , and the like .
There are serious dangers involved in this trend toward rising Federal expenditures , of which I take a dim view , but it seems very likely to occur .
According to the latest projections of the Bureau of the Census , the annual rate of household formations will increase for the next 20 years .
Under the most favorable assumptions for increase , the Bureau of the Census projects that the annual rate of household formations will rise from about 883,000 in the last two years of the Fifties to an annual rate of about 1,018,000 in the first five years of the Sixties , and to a slightly higher annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the decade .
The average annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the Sixties is still considerably below the annual rate of 1,525,000 in the three-year period from April 1947 to March 1950 .
In a more pessimistic vein about the economic outlook , I suspect that the reservoir of demand for consumer goods and housing which was dammed-up during the Thirties and World War 2 , is finally in the process of running dry .
The huge backlog of demand which was evident in the first decade and a half after the War was fed by liquid assets accumulated by the public during the War , and even more so by the easier and easier credit in the consumer loan and home loan fields .
I am confident that it will , but consumer spending in the Sixties will not be fortified by the great backlog of wants and desires which characterized most of the Fifties .
Accordingly , during the Sixties our national economy is likely to grow at as fast a rate as in the Fifties and , in the process , to require enormous amounts of capital funds .
While there may be several such industries to which the model of this paper is applicable , the authors make particular claim of relevance to the explanation of the course of wages and prices in the steel industry of the United States since World War 2 .
The Mathematical Appendix presents the rigorous argument , but is best read after Part 1 , in order that the assumptions underlying the equations may be explicit .
This is not extended to anticipated levels of GNP , however -- only the current level of GNP affects the public pressure against wage-price increases .
The Congress of Vienna is a convenient starting point because it both epitomized and symbolized what was to follow .
International law had to fit the conditions of Europe , and nothing that could not fit this system , or the interests of the great European nations collectively , could possibly emerge as law in any meaningful sense .
On the one hand , the major European nations had to maintain vis-a-vis each other an emphasis upon sovereignty , independence , formal equality -- thus insuring for themselves individually an optimal freedom of action to maintain the `` flexibility of alignment '' that the system required and to avoid anything approaching a repetition of the disastrous Napoleonic experience .
Political interference in Africa and Asia and even in Latin America ( though limited in Latin America by the special interest of the United States as expressed in the Monroe Doctrine , itself from the outset related to European politics and long dependent upon the `` balance of power '' system in Europe ) was necessary in order to preserve both common economic values and the European `` balance '' itself .
more doubtful , but possible , ( with an assist from the North ) was the neutralization of the Latin American countries ; ;
Kent and Story , the great early American scholars , repeatedly made use of this phrase , or of `` Christian nations '' , which is a substantial equivalent .
Wheaton stated that the public law was essentially `` limited to the civilized and Christian peoples of Europe or to those of European origin '' .
Now , with virtually every writer , not only was the European origin of public law acknowledged as a historical phenomenon , but the rules thus established by the advanced civilizations of Europe were to be imposed on others .
During the nineteenth century these views were protested by virtually all the Latin American writers , though ineffectively , just as the new nations of Africa and Asia protest them , with more effect , today .
The theory of international law , which in the nineteenth century became common to virtually all writers in Europe and America , broke this unity and this universality .
It reached its ultimate philosophical statement in notions of `` state will '' put forward by the Germans , especially by Hegel , although political philosophers will recognize its origins in the rejected doctrines of Hobbes .
First was the period of codification of existing law : the Code Napoleon in France and the peculiar codification that , in fact , resulted from Austin's restatement and ordering of the Common Law in England .
However , the sovereign was not Hobbes' absolute monarch but rather the parliamentary sovereign of Austin .
In fact , some -- Anzilotti is the principle example -- went so far as to say that all international law could be traced to the single legal norm , Pacta sunt Servanda .
Admiralty law , the law merchant , and the host of problems which arise in private litigation because of some contact with a foreign country were all severed from the older Law of Nations and made dependent on the several national laws .
Mr. Justice Black was one of the minority that rested on the Article 1 , power .
In this view , supported by only three members of the Court , a power denied by the specific provisions of Article 3 , was granted by the generality of Article 1 .
If this seems arbitrary , its effect was to treat citizens of the District of Columbia equally with citizens of the states -- at the expense of expanding a troublesome jurisdiction .
For almost a hundred years we relied upon state courts ( subject to review by the Supreme Court ) for the protection of most rights arising under national law .
Then in 1875 , apparently in response to the nationalizing influence of the Civil War , Congress first gave the lower federal courts general authority -- concurrently with state tribunals -- to decide cases involving federal-right questions .
One purpose of the change was to attain sympathetic enforcement of rights insured by the Civil War amendments against state interference .
Serious difficulty arose with the advent of Substantive Due Process .
In 1910 it required the convening of a special three-judge court for the issuance of certain injunctions and allowed direct appeals to the Supreme Court .
Meanwhile , the Supreme Court , like Congress , showed misgivings concerning this aspect of government by injunction .
Drawing upon the traditional discretion of the chancellor , Mr. Justice Holmes introduced a series of self-imposed judicial restraints that culminated in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's famous doctrine of abstention .
The classic case is Railroad Commission v. Pullman .
On review the Supreme Court , via Mr. Justice Frankfurter , found southern racial problems `` a sensitive area of social policy on which the federal courts ought not to enter unless no alternative to adjudication is open '' .
Reluctant , as usual , to interpret state legislation -- such interpretation can only be a `` forecast rather than a determination '' -- Mr. Justice Frankfurter led a unanimous Court to vacate the injunction .
To the extent that the jurisdictional principle of 1875 stands unmodified by subsequent legislation , federal equitable relief against state action must be available -- or so it seems to Mr. Justice Frankfurter .
In Alabama Public Service Commission v. Southern Ry. Co. , the commission had refused to permit abandonment of certain `` uneconomic '' train facilities .
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson concurred in the Court's result , for they found no merit in the railroad's claim .
`` By one fell swoop the Court now finds that Congress indulged in needless legislation in the acts of 1910 , 1913 , 1925 , 1934 and 1937 .
By these measures , Congress , so the Court ( in effect ) now decides , gave not only needless but inadequate relief , since it now appears that the federal courts have inherent power to sterilize the Act of 1875 against all proceedings challenging local regulation '' .
A most revealing recent case is Textile Workers Union v. Lincoln Mills .
The Court held that Congress had intended the federal judiciary to `` fashion '' an appropriate law of labor-management contracts .
The Lincoln Mills decision authorizes a whole new body of federal `` common law '' which , as Mr. Justice Frankfurter pointed out in dissent , leads to one of the following `` incongruities '' : `` ( ( 1 ) conflict in federal and state court interpretations of collective bargaining agreements ; ;
The Justice's elaborate examination of the legislative history of the provision in question suggests that Congress' purpose was merely to make unions suable .
To avoid these constitutional difficulties , Mr. Justice Frankfurter was prepared to read the Taft-Hartley provision as concerned with diversity , rather than federal question , jurisdiction .
( As we have seen , the Erie and York decisions require federal courts in diversity cases to follow state decisional rules .
) Here again Mr. Justice Frankfurter could not lightly accept the principle of wholesale judicial legislation .
Does Lincoln Mills suggest that if Congress granted jurisdiction over interstate divorce cases , the federal courts would be authorized to fashion a national law for the dissolution of marriages ? ?
A careful student has suggested that `` In any new revision ( of the Judicial Code ) the legislators would do well to remember that the allocation of power to the federal courts should be limited to those matters in which their expertise in federal law might be used , leaving to the state judiciaries the primary obligation of pronouncing state law '' .
Obviously , the goal here proposed is the guiding principle in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's opinions -- to the extent that Congress leaves the problem to judicial discretion .
Mr. Justice Black no doubt concurs in principle but is more apt to make exceptions to achieve a generous and `` just '' result .
To insure uniformity in the meaning of national law , however , state interpretations are subject to Supreme Court review .
Mr. Justice Black led a reversing majority : `` Strict local rules of pleading cannot be used to impose unnecessary burdens upon rights of recovery authorized by federal law '' .
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson dissented : `` One State may cherish formalities more than another , one State may be more responsive than another to procedural reforms .
If a litigant chooses to enforce a Federal right in a State court , he cannot be heard to object if he is treated exactly as are plaintiffs who press like claims arising under State law with regard to the form in which the claim must be stated -- the particularity , for instance , with which a cause of action must be described .
Federal law , though invoked in a State court , delimits the Federal claim -- defines what gives a right to recovery and what goes to prove it .
But the form in which the claim must be stated need not be different from what the State exacts in the enforcement of like obligations created by it , so long as a requirement does not add to , or diminish , the right as defined by Federal law , nor burden the realization of this right in the actualities of litigation '' .
To this extent some stretching of the literal meaning of the Committee Report seems justified , since the literal meaning conflicts with the clear implication , if not the language , of the statute .
it would certainly violate the intention of Congress as expressed in the Committee Report ; ;
and in at least one instance , involving refund claims , it might be contrary to another provision of the United States Code .
Section 203 of the United States Code voids an assignment of a claim against the Government unless made after it has been allowed , the amount due has been ascertained , and a warrant for its payment has been issued .
The leading case , Seaboard Air Line Railway v. United States , held that the transferee could sue for a refund of taxes paid by the transferor , and it has been consistently followed .
The Court said the purpose of the section was principally to spare the Government the embarrassment and trouble of dealing with several parties , one of them a stranger to the claim , and to prevent traffic in claims , particularly tenuous claims , against the Government .
A recent case in point is Mitchell Canneries v. United States , in which a claim against the Government was transferred first from a corporation to a partnership , whose partners were former stockholders , and then to another corporation formed by the partners .
Holding the final corporation entitled to sue on the claim , the Court cited the Seaboard , Novo Trading , and Roomberg cases for the proposition that `` transfers by operation of law or in conjunction with changes of corporate structure are not assignments prohibited by the statute '' .
In an earlier case , Kingan & Co. v. United States , an American corporation was formed for the purpose of acquiring the stock of a British corporation in exchange for its own stock and then liquidating the British corporation .
The anti-assignment statute was held not to prevent the American corporation from suing for a refund of taxes paid by the British corporation .
The Court , nevertheless , relied on the Seaboard case and also mentioned that the shareholders of the two corporations were the same .
The Treasury arrives at substantially the same conclusion , but skirts the problem of section 203 of the United States Code .
If the succession is a matter of public record , certificates of the Secretaries of State or other public officials having custody of the documents will suffice ; ;
A recent Ruling , although rather confusing , cites and follows Rev. Rul. 54-17 .
As stated in Seaboard and numerous other cases , the two primary reasons for the enactment of section 203 of the United States Code were to prevent the Government from having to deal with more than one claimant and to prevent the assignment of meretricious claims on a contingent-fee basis .
Section 203 of the United States Code has been interpreted as not applying to claims against the Government transferred in tax-free reorganizations .
Other sections of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code provide for survival of certain of a transferor's tax attributes following a tax-free reorganization .
Under the 1939 Code this item was permitted to survive a tax-free reorganization in the Stanton Brewery case , but only over the dissent of Judge Learned Hand , who wrote the majority opinion in the Sansome case , a leading case requiring carryover of earnings and profits in a non-taxable reorganization .
With respect to this type of item , one might properly apply the language of the Committee Report , quoted above , which cautions against using section 381 as a basis for treating other tax attributes not mentioned therein .
The major sections of the questionnaire ( see Appendix B ) are devoted to the following : 1 .
Information for classifying respondents ( Part A of the questionnaire ) 2 .
Characteristics of defense sales activities ( Part B of the questionnaire ) 3 .
Respondents' practices in participating in advertised bidding for defense business ( Part C of the questionnaire ) 4 .
Respondents' practices in participating in negotiated bidding for defense purposes ( Part D of the questionnaire ) 5 .
Respondents' opinions regarding advertised bidding ( Part E of the questionnaire ) 6 .
Respondents' opinions regarding negotiated bidding ( Part F of the questionnaire ) 7 .
Respondents' preferences regarding the methods of awarding defense contracts ( Part G of the questionnaire )
In June , 1960 , an early draft of the questionnaire , along with a cover letter , was mailed to fourteen companies in the state of Washington .
The revised draft was mailed in July , 1960 , to 100 firms throughout the United States .
Fifty of the 100 firms were selected on a random basis from 3,500 names submitted by member companies of the Aerospace Industries Association ( AIA list ) and fifty were selected in a similar manner from a list of 1,500 names compiled by the research team from the Thomas Register ( TR list ) .
The method of compiling the AIA and TR lists will be described later .
The cover letter , questionnaire , and follow-up postcard were then revised into final form ( see Appendixes A , B , and C ) .
The second list was derived from a group of approximately 8,000 names supplied to the research team by the Aerospace Industries Association .
These names were secured from member companies by the Association from the forty-four sources listed in Appendix Aj .
The remaining names were then checked against the Thomas Register list ( see below ) and duplicate names were removed from the AIA lists .
The third list was selected by the research team on a random basis from the Thomas Register .
It was compiled as a control sample to determine if the opinions and practices of companies on the lists submitted by the members of the Aerospace Industries Association were materially different from those of other small firms selling to defense programs .
The fact that the Aerospace Industries Association members whose lists were used did not comprise all firms engaged in defense programs .
The control sample was selected by taking the bottom name of each of the two columns of names on each page of the alphabetical listing of manufacturers in the Thomas Register .
The questionnaires were mailed in Seattle , Washington , and sent by regular mail to addresses in the states of Idaho , Montana , Oregon , and Washington .
Airmail was used for the addresses outside the Pacific Northwest .
Each letter contained a postage-prepaid return envelope by regular mail for addresses in the Pacific Northwest , and by airmail for those outside the Pacific Northwest .
The final mailing of the questionnaire was made late in August , 1960 , to 4,900 firms consisting of 3,450 from the AIA list and 1,450 from the TR list .
The cards were then processed using standard IBM punch card equipment , including an IBM 650 computer .
The first step in processing was to analyze the returns from Questions 1 , 2 , and 3 to determine whether the respondents were large businesses or small businesses , in accordance with the definitions contained in ASPR Section 1-701 .
The second step in processing was to compare the responses from companies on the AIA list with those from companies on the TR list in order to determine whether it would be appropriate to merge the responses for the purposes of the study .
The methods and results of this comparative analysis are described in Appendix Aj .
The vast Central Valley of California is one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world .
The contestants in this economic struggle are the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee ( AWOC ) of the AFL-CIO and the agricultural employers of the State .
By virtue of the legal responsibilities of the Department of Employment in the farm placement program , we necessarily found ourselves in the middle between these two forces .
It is disconcerting , nevertheless , to read in a labor weekly , `` Perluss knuckles down to growers '' , and then to be confronted with a growers' publication which states , `` Perluss recognizes obviously phony and trumped-up strikes as bona fide '' .
This past year the pattern has been different : The organizing program had the full support of the AFL-CIO , which supplied staff and money to the AWOC , as well as moral support .
Normally , because agricultural labor is not covered by unemployment insurance , we would not expect any issues to arise regarding benefit payments under the trade dispute provision of the Unemployment Insurance Code , although such a situation is quite within the realm of possibility .
But the current issues arose out of the Wagner-Peyser Act concerning referrals to an establishment where a labor dispute exists , and out of Public Law 78 and the Migrant Labor Agreement if Mexican nationals were employed at the ranch .
California has accepted the provisions of that Act ( as have all other States ) by enacting into our Code ( Section 2051 ) a provision that
The State of California accepts the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act , and will observe and comply with the requirements of that act .
In carrying out the provisions of this Act , the Secretary is authorized and directed to provide for the giving of notice of strikes or lock-outs to applicants before they are referred to employment .
Other provisions of the Act empower the Secretary to adopt regulations necessary to carry out its provisions , and he has done so .
Employer representatives have contended that the Secretary has gone beyond his authority by such a prohibition , on the grounds that the Wagner-Peyser Act requires only written notice to the prospective worker that a dispute exists .
The matter got into the courts this way : One of the early strikes called by the AWOC was at the DiGiorgio pear orchards in Yuba County .
Accordingly , under clause ( 1 ) of the Secretary's Regulation , we suspended referrals to the employer .
) The employer , seeking to continue his harvest , challenged our right to cease referrals to him , and sought relief in the Superior Court of Yuba County .
However , the Attorney General of California , at the request of the Secretary of Labor , sought to have the jurisdiction over the issue removed to the Federal District Court , on grounds that it was predominantly a Federal issue since the validity of the Secretary's Regulation was being challenged .
However , the Federal Court held that since the State had accepted the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act into its own Code , and presumably therefore also the regulations , it was now a State matter .
It accordingly refused to assume jurisdiction , whereupon the California Superior Court made the restraining order permanent .
A similar case arose at the Bowers ranch in Butte County , and the Superior Court of that county issued similar restraining orders .
The growers have strenuously argued that I should have accepted the Superior Court decisions as conclusive and issued statewide instructions to our staff to ignore this provision in the Secretary's Regulation .
It is an accepted juridical principle in California that a Superior Court decision does not constitute a binding legal precedent .
It is not binding upon another Superior Court , which could rule to the contrary .
Only when a decision is rendered by the District Court of Appeal ( or , of course , the Supreme Court ) is a binding precedent established .
In that event , we can correctly say that we have received an authoritative interpretation of the matter , and one which we can follow statewide with confidence that the policy will not be overthrown in other Superior Courts .
But over and beyond the compelling need for a binding precedent decision , I am convinced that the decisions of the Superior Courts which in effect nullify the Secretary's Regulation are not a correct interpretation of the Secretary's power under the Federal law .
The Attorney General of California concurs in this interpretation and has filed an appeal from these decisions to the District Court of Appeal .
The Attorney General of the United States , in considering the power of the Secretary to issue similar regulations under the Wagner-Peyser Act relating to the interstate recruitment of farm workers , has rendered an opinion sustaining his authority .
Further , and as an evidence of legislative intent only , the Senate of the United States recently defeated by a substantial majority the `` Holland Amendment '' to the Fair Labor Standards Act , which would have specifically limited the regulatory authority of the Secretary in these matters .
The public interest is so dominant in such an issue that I cannot be so presumptuous as to attempt to settle it by an administrative order based upon conclusions reached in a summary action in one or two Superior Courts in the State .
It is an issue which may well reach the Supreme Court of the United States before judicial finality is achieved .
As an administrator , I cannot place the Employment Service in California in jeopardy of being out of compliance with the Federal laws by my failure to pursue the avenues of appeal open to me .
To have applied statewide the decisions of the two cases heard in Superior Court , in my opinion , would have placed us clearly out of compliance with the Wagner-Peyser Act and would have immediately opened the way for the Secretary of Labor , were he so inclined , to notify the Governor of such noncompliance , set a date for hearing , and issue his finding .
The impact of noncompliance under the Wagner-Peyser Act is clear : the withdrawal of some $11 million a year of administrative funds which finance our employment service program or , as a corollary , the taking over by the Federal Government of its operation .
Thus far , the cases which have come before the courts have involved only the issue of referral where the job is vacant due to a strike -- condition ( 1 ) in the Regulation of the Secretary .
Because of the uncertainty of this definition , I solicited the interpretation of the Secretary of Labor .
Studies conducted in various sections of the United States indicate that many children in elementary schools are maladjusted emotionally , and that many of them are failing to make satisfactory progress in school subjects .
The Summary Report On Desegregation Progress In Education In The Middle-South Region , 1959 - 1960 '' clearly shows two pieces of information .
The Summary Report , which was prepared for this Conference , indicates , first , that actual or pending school desegregation is increasing ; ;
The Middle-South Region , as defined by the National Association of Intergroup Relations Officials ( NAIRO ) , consists of the states of Kentucky , Maryland , Tennessee , West Virginia , Delaware , Virginia and the District of Columbia .
The states and the Nation's Capital all have some desegregation , in fact some dating back to 1954 ; ;
Elementary school desegregation came to Owen and Union Counties , which already had high school desegregation .
The action was a result of a court order , the citation for which ( and for other court action mentioned in this paper ) is taken from the Summary Report for this Conference .
In Maryland the Harford County Board of Education had prepared a desegregation plan which the Court approved but which a plaintiff had challenged ; ;
Similarly , further desegregation may come from suits pending in three Tennessee cities , Chattanooga , Knoxville , and Memphis .
In West Virginia the number of white and Negro children attending the same school has increased almost twofold .
As in Maryland , a District court has approved an official plan of school desegregation in Delaware .
As a result of the State Board of Education plan , Negro children entered heretofore white elementary schools in five districts .
The Third Circuit Court of Appeals is reviewing an appeal from the plan .
In Virginia court orders led to desegregation in Charlottesville and Floyd Counties .
Desegregation in Pulaski County is pending because of court order , although date of admission is not yet determined .
Negro parents have filed application for admission of additional children to schools in Alexandria , Arlington , Fairfax , and Warren Counties .
Desegregation can also result from additional suits brought by Negro plaintiffs against school boards in Newport News , Fairfax County , Arlington County , and Norfolk .
As a school district , the District of Columbia has had desegregated schools since 1954 , shortly after the Supreme Court decision .
This recapitulation makes it clear that school desegregation continues , including the Old Dominion State , in spite of its stern resistance .
Before turning to my views as to the problems and issues before us at this Regional Conference , I wish to note a small item in the Summary Report as it refers to the District of Columbia .
West of Rock Creek Park is still monolithically white and is in fact increasingly white as a result of Georgetown's conversion-by-renovation housing program .
Nearby Foggy Bottom is ousting Negroes .
The large acreage in the Southwest Redevelopment area beckons white people -- what with high-priced town houses and elevator apartments .
The Capitol Hill rehabilitation , like Foggy Bottom , replaces Negroes with whites ( but also replaces some whites with other whites ) .
The sharpest break with tradition , the past and present of `` White Ring Around a Black Core '' , may come with the opening of nearby Montgomery County suburbs to Negro residents and , presumably , the consequent conclusion of some whites that they cannot escape the Negro by fleeing to the suburbs .
In fact , short of fleeing to Warrenton , Virginia , or Rockville , Maryland , white people may have to live with Negroes .
From the Summary Report before us at this Conference , a number of problems are apparent .
On the basis of pupil assignment criteria , Judge Albert Bryan has assigned Negro children to formerly white schools in Arlington and Alexandria , Virginia .
In large cities like Baltimore , Louisville , and Washington , D.C. , should school desegregation be extended to all-Negro and all-white schools by assigning white and Negro teachers , respectively ? ?
On the one hand do we argue the Supreme Court decision required only that a child not be denied admission to a school on account of his race ? ?
In thousands of school districts , indeed , in the entire State of Mississippi , no plaintiff has come forth .
Should Congress authorize the Attorney General to file suit to accomplish admission of a child to a school to which he is denied entrance ? ?
Even though in civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 the provision for the Attorney General to act was eliminated , should we nevertheless support such a clause ? ?
This is the Powell Amendment , which in 1957 divided even a `` liberal '' group like the American Veterans Committee ( AVC ) .
Should we support a clause in Federal school construction or school assistance legislation that would deny Federal funds to a school district that denies admission to a child on account of his race ? ?
For the school year , 1959-1960 , the Prince Edward County ( Virginia ) Board of Supervisors voted not to provide funds for public education , and the school board therefore could provide no public education -- for white or Negro children .
Should the requirement , which must therefore be Federal in nature , be legislated by the United States Congress ? ?
Or must it become law by amendment of the United States Constitution ? ?
If the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , Issue No. 6 may be moot .
If , on the other hand , it is not settled , or while it is being debated and resolved , does the Federal government have a responsibility in situations like that in Prince Edward County ? ?
There is no doubt that higher education since World War 2 , has moved away from `` pure '' liberal education toward greater emphasis on technology and specialization .
For instance , there have been two Presidential Commissions on higher education since World War 2 .
President Truman's Commission on Higher Education tended to take a liberal , expansionist position , while President Eisenhower's Committee on Education Beyond the High School was slightly more conservative .
An example of a more definite class bias is noted in proceedings of the Commission on the Financing of Higher Education sponsored by the Association of American Universities and supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation .
This might be said to be an upper- or an upper-middle-class bias , but the Commission published as one of its staff studies a book by Byron S. Hollingshead entitled Who Should Go To College ? ?
Furthermore , the Commission set up the Council for Financial Aid to Education as a means of encouraging private business to increase its support of private higher education .
Finally there are the parent organizations and the laymen's organizations such as the National Association of Parents and Teachers , and the Citizens Committee on Public Schools .
Educational policy in the United States has as an explicit goal the maximization of economic and cultural opportunity .
The reaffirmation of American faith in the comprehensive high school , as expressed in the Conant study , is another indication of the liveliness of the ideal of maximizing opportunity through the equalizing of educational opportunity .
The first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the Cost Section of the Interstate Commerce Commission .
The Cost Section distinguishes between ( directly ) variable costs and constant costs in a manner noted in the preceding chapter .
Nevertheless , because the Cost Section has felt impelled to make some kind of a distribution of total costs , it has apportioned this residue , which it sometimes calls `` burden '' , among the units of carload traffic on a basis ( partly ton , partly ton-mile ) which is concededly quite arbitrary from the standpoint of cost determination .
Since this book is concerned only incidentally with railroad rates , it will not attempt to analyze the methods by which the staff of the Interstate Commerce Commission has estimated out-of-pocket costs and apportioned residue costs .
But in any event , full credit should be given to the Cost Section for its express and overt recognition of a vital distinction too often ignored in utility-cost analyses : namely , that between a cost allocation designed to reflect the actual behavior of costs in response to changes in rates of output of different classes of utility service ; ;
Moreover , whereas in Interstate Commerce Commission parlance `` variable cost '' means a cost deemed to vary in direct proportion to changes in rate of output , in the type of analysis now under review `` variable cost '' has been used more broadly , so as to cover costs which , while a function of some one variable ( such as output of energy , or number of customers ) , are not necessarily a linear function .
Thus , during any given year ( A ) if the revenues from the residential service are $7,000,000 , ( B ) if the operating expenses imputed to this class of service come to $5,000,000 , and ( C ) if the net investment in ( or value of ) the plant and equipment deemed devoted to this service amounts to $30,000,000 , the cost analyst will report that residential service , in the aggregate , has yielded a return of $2,000,000 or 6-2/3 per cent .
But contrary to Whitehead , philosophy is not a synonym for Plato .
The notion of philosophy as Queen Bee may fit well with authoritarian modes of political ideology , but it has been noted that the price of such an imperial notion of philosophy is the frustration and flagellation of the social sciences .
Likewise , Kant formulated the nebular hypothesis , according to which the solar system was evolved from a rotating mass of incandescent gas , nearly a half century before its scientific value was made plain by Laplace in his Systeme Du Monde .
To those raised on Marcel's Homo Viator and Heidegger's das Nichtige , this may seem a modest role for philosophy .
As Simmel ( 1908 ) and Dilthey ( 1922 ) indicated , questions of whether the value of life is individual or social are not questions , but assertions of faith made to appear as legitimate questions .
If it could be shown that judgments of good and bad were not judgments at all , that they asserted nothing true or false , but merely expressed emotions like `` Hurrah '' or `` Fiddlesticks '' , then these wayward judgments would cease from troubling and weary heads could be at rest .
It has been said of John Stuart Mill that he wrote so clearly that he could be found out .
Let us take a set of circumstances in which I happen to be interested on the legislative side and in which I think every one of us might naturally make such a statement .
For what I express in my remark is something going on in me at the time , and that of course did not exist until I did come on the scene .
Broad and Ross have lately contended that this fitness is one of the main facts of ethics , and I suspect they are right .
In his novel The House Of The Dead , Dostoevsky tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp .
In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the Geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the Greek world .
The Aegean in 800 B.C.
From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the Aegean world down to 800 B.C.
The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery .
While Protogeometric vases usually turn up , especially outside Greece proper , together with as many or more examples of local stamp , these `` non-Greek '' patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century .
In their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in Protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed .
The potters of the Aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in Greece itself Argive , Corinthian , Attic , Boeotian , and other Geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks .
These are the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the Hellenic outlook , independent of outside forces .
Throughout the Dark ages , it is clear , the Greek world had been developing slowly but consistently .
the landscape of Greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century B.C. , the age of Homer's `` rosy-fingered Dawn '' .
The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ;
Although it is not possible to sunder old and new in this era , I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the first decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee of the first stage of Greek civilization .
The growing contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture after 750 .
We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery , the epic and the myth , and the religious evolution of early Greece ; ;
The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the Iliad lie in the Aegean past .
The severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the Strong Geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying Geometric pottery ; ;
In their vases were embodied the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization , at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work , and then more confidently in the initial stages of the Geometric style .
The rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless Greek .
Though the spread of this type of decoration in the Aegean has not yet been precisely determined , it seems to appear first in the Cyclades , which were among the leading exporters of pottery throughout the century .
Plate 12 illustrates four examples , which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common spirit but of different schools .
Even while suffering the trip to his home , Cook swore to Moore and Lane that he would kill the Indian .
Three weeks later , following his recovery , armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared by the district attorney , Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez .
Both Cook's and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion .
General manager Pels even suggested that it might be wise to keep the Mexicans in suspense rather than accept their offers to sell out and move away , and try to have a few punished .
On February 17 , Russell and Cook were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased .
While talking with Julian M. Beall , Francisco Archuleta and Juan Marcus appeared , both heavily armed , and after watching the house for a while , rode away .
After spending two nights ( Wednesday and Thursday ) in Catskill , the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business .
They stayed with a rancher Friday night and by eleven o'clock Saturday morning passed the old Garnett Lee ranch .
Half a mile below at the mouth of Salyer's Canyon was an old ranch that the company had purchased from A. J. Armstrong , occupied by a Mexican , his wife , and an old trapper .
There were three houses in Salyer's Canyon just at the foot of a low bluff , the road winding along the top , entering above , and then passing down in front of the houses , thence to the Vermejo .
Not a bullet touched Cook who was nearer the ambush , but one hit Russell in the leg and another broke his arm , passing on through his body .
With the first reports , Russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell .
Grabbing his Winchester from its sheath , Cook prepared to fight from behind the arroyo bank .
Finding him dead , Cook caught Russell's horse and rode to the cattle foreman's house to report the incident and request bloodhounds to trail the assassins .
Before daylight Sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves , where 100 to 150 Mexicans had gathered .
Since the strength of the Mexicans had been underrated , too small a posse had been collected , and since the deputy had not been provided with search warrants , MacPherson and his men decided it was much wiser to withdraw .
some buildings , farm tools , two horses , plows , and hay owned by Bonito Lavato , a friendly interpreter for the company , and Pedro Chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed ; ;
District Attorney M. W. Mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught committing these crimes or carrying arms -- he just didn't catch anyone .
Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook that he should leave New Mexico .
By early summer , he wrote from Laramie that he was suffering from the wound inflicted in the ambush and was in a bad way financially , so Pels sent him a draft for $100 , warning that it was still not wise for him to return .
The judge became ill just as the Colfax District Court convened , no substitute was brought in , no criminal cases heard , only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried , and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual three weeks .
Word reached the company that the man behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales , a man with many followers , including a number who were kept in line through fear of him .
Although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named Asher Jones , the warrant for his arrest had never been served .
On May 19 , a deputy sheriff's posse of eight men left Maxwell City and rode thirty-five miles up the Vermejo where they were joined by Juan Jose Martinez .
When it became obvious that he could stay inside no longer , taking a thousand to one chance Gonzales rushed outside , square against the muzzle of a Winchester .
Early the next morning , a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez , one of the posse members , was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home on the upper Vermejo .
The sheriff and District Attorney Mills hastily swore out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed , according to signed statements by Chavez and Dr. I. P. George , and ordered Deputy Barney Clark of Raton to rescue the posseman .
Traveling all night , Clark and twelve men arrived at about seven o'clock May 22 .
A Mexican justice of the peace had issue a writ against Chavez for taking part in the `` murder '' of Manuel Gonzales so he and his father were anxious to be taken out of danger .
Thus he wired J. P. Lower and Sons of Denver : `` Have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot ? ?
His problem then became one of restraining the American fighters who wanted to clean out the Vermejo by force immediately .
The Manchester Depot Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction of a sewer in that locality , and assessments were made for its maintenance .
Fire District No. 1 discussed its possible purchase in 1945 , but considered it an unwise investment .
The sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street .
As new homes were built they were connected so that all residences south of School Street are served by it .
B. J. Connell is the present treasurer and manager .
The 1946 town meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center , Depot , and Way's Lane .
The committee submitted a report signed by Louis Martin and Leon Wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report .
The layout of the sewer lines was designed by Henry W. Taylor , who was the engineer for the Manchester Village disposal plant .
Manchester's unusual interest in telegraphy has often been attributed to the fact that the Rev. J. D. Wickham , headmaster of Burr and Burton Seminary , was a personal friend and correspondent of the inventor , Samuel F. B. Morse .
At any rate , Manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system which was set up in 1844 between Baltimore and Washington .
In 1846 Matthew B. Goodwin , jeweler and watchmaker , became the town's first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business `` two doors north of the Equinox House '' or `` one door north of the Bank , Manchester , Vermont '' .
Goodwin was telegrapher for the `` American Telegraph Company '' and the `` Troy and Canada Junction Telegraph Company '' .
Shares of capital stock at $15 each in the latter company were payable at the Bank of Manchester or at various other Vermont banks .
By 1871 L. C. Orvis , manager of the `` Western Union Telegraph Company '' , expressed willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village drugstore .
Orvis even needed to hire an assistant , Clark J. Wait .
The Manchester Journal commented editorially on the surprising amount of local telegraphic business .
In the fall of 1878 , the `` Popular Telegraph Line '' was established between Manchester and Factory Point by the owners , Paul W. Orvis , Henry Gray , J. N. Hard , and Clark J. Wait .
In 1879 the same Clark Wait , with H. H. Holley of South Dorset , formed the `` American Telegraph Line '' , extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and South Dorset to Dorset .
Telegraphers at the Depot at this time were Aaron C. Burr and Mark Manley of `` Burr and Manley '' , dealers in lumber and dry goods .
By 1883 the `` Battenkill Telegraph Company '' was in existence and Alvin Pettibone was its president .
Operating in 1887 was the `` Valley Telegraph Line '' , officers of which were E. C. Orvis , president ; ;
H. K. Fowler , vice-president and secretary ; ;
J. N. Hard , treasurer ; ;
F. H. Walker , superintendent ; ;
H. S. Walker , assistant superintendent .
Two companies now had headquarters with Clark J. Wait , who by then had his own drugstore at Factory Point -- the `` Northern Union Telegraph Company '' and the `` Western Union '' .
Operators were Arthur Koop and Norman Taylor .
Still existing on a `` Northern Union '' telegraph form is a typical peremptory message from Peru grocer J. J. Hapgood to Burton and Graves' store in Manchester -- `` Get and send by stage four pounds best Porterhouse or serloin stake , for Mrs. Hapgood send six sweet oranges '' .
About 1888 J. E. McNaughton of Barnumville and E. G. Bacon became proprietors of the `` Green Mountain Telegraph Company '' , connecting all offices on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from Barnumville to Peru , Londonderry , South Londonderry , Lowell Lake , Windham , North Windham , Grafton , Cambridgeport , Saxton's River , and Bellows Falls .
From 1896 until 1910 John H. Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore he purchased from Clark Wait .
The Village office of Western Union with George Towsley as manager and telegrapher continued in Hard's drugstore until 1905 .
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments .
In 1914 when the town was chosen for the U. S. Amateur Golf tournament , a representative hurried here from the Boston manager's office .
In his wake came the District Traffic Supervisor and the cream of the telegraphic profession , ten of Boston's best , chosen for their long experience and thorough knowledge of golf .
The old Morse system was replaced locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929 , when Ellamae Heckman ( Wilcox ) was manager of the Western Union office .
During summers , business was so brisk that Mrs. Wilcox had two assistants and a messenger .
She was succeeded by Clarence Goyette .
Since that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad station at the Depot and shops at the Center back to the town clerk's office and drugstore at the Village .
After being located for some years in the Village at the Equinox Pharmacy under the supervision of Mrs. Harry Mercier , it is presently located in the Hill and Dale Shop , Manchester Center .
The first known telephone line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble Company in South Dorset .
This was extended the following year to include the railroad station agent's office and Thayer's Hotel at Factory Point .
In November 1887 a line connecting several dwelling houses in Dorset was extended to Manchester Depot .
Telephone wires from Louis Dufresne's house in East Manchester to the Dufresne lumber job near Bourn Pond were up about 1895 .
Eber L. Taylor of Manchester Depot recorded the setting of phone poles in East Dorset and Barnumville in his diary for 1906 .
These must have been for local calls strictly , as in May 1900 the `` only long distance telephone '' in town was transferred from C. B. Carleton's to Young's shoe store .
A small single switchboard was installed in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store ( later E. H. Hemenway's ) .
Anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the Manchester Journal .
In 1918 the New England Telephone Company began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U. S. Rte. 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center .
Service running through Barnumville and to Bennington County towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the `` Gleason Telephone Company '' in 1925 , but major supervision of telephone lines in Manchester was with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , which eventually gained all control .
In 1931 Mrs. F. H. Briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 .
Another veteran telephone operator was Edith Fleming Blackmer , who had been in the office forty years at the time of her death in 1960 .
In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange , which made business easier for the Manchester office , but it was not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester and Dorset .
The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill on the West Branch in Factory Point .
On June 14 , 1900 the Manchester Journal reported that an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward S. Isham at `` Ormsby Hill '' .
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant .
The next step was construction by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge .
This was nearly completed May 23 , 1901 with a promise of lights by June 10 , but the first light did not go on until September 28 .
It was at the end of the sidewalk in front of the Dellwood Cemetery cottage .
The first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were John Marsden , M. L. Manley , William F. Orvis , George Smith , and John Blackmer .
The officers were John Marsden , president ; ;
John C. Blackmer , vice-president ; ;
and William F. Orvis , secretary .
Marsden was manager of the company for ten years and manager of its successor company , the Colonial Light and Power Company , for one year .
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
Manchester then had two competing power companies until 1904 , when the Manchester Light and Power Company purchased the transmission system of the Vail Company .
The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont Hydro-Electric Corporation , which in turn was absorbed by the Central Vermont Public Service Corporation .
The latter now furnishes the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at Manchester Depot which was put into operation February 19 , 1930 and was improved in January 1942 by the installation of larger transformers .
For a time following the abandonment of the local plant , electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north .
Some who have written on Utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which More amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' .
Secondly , to find a learned diversion and a pleasing joke in More's account of the stupid brutalities of early sixteenth century wars , of the anguish of the poor and dispossessed , of the insolence and cruelty of the rich and powerful requires a callousness toward suffering and sin that would be surprising in a moral imbecile and most surprising in More himself .
Indeed , it is even surprising in the Canon of Christ Church and Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History , who fathered this most peculiar view , and in the brilliant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English at Cambridge , who inherited it and is now its most eminent proponent .
But to return to the main line of our inquiry , it is doubtful that Utopia is still widely read because More was medieval or even because he was a martyr -- indeed , it is likely that these days many who read Utopia with interest do not even know that its author was a martyr .
And if he did stand on the margins of modernity , it was not in dying a martyr for such unity as Papal supremacy might be able to force on Western Christendom .
It was not even in writing Latin epigrams , sometimes bawdy ones , or in translating Lucian from Greek into Latin or in defending the study of Greek against the attack of conservative academics , or in attacking the conservative theologians who opposed Erasmus's philological study of the New Testament .
Only one other contemporary of More's evokes so immediate and direct a response , and only one other contemporary work -- Niccolo Machiavelli and The Prince .
Remember that in seeking the modern in Utopia we do not deny the existence of the medieval and the Renaissance there ; ;
The medieval was the most important to Chambers because he sought to place Thomas More , the author of Utopia , in some intelligible relation with St. Thomas More , the martyr .
To others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance of Christian Humanism , the Renaissance elements are of primary concern .
We find it in Plato's Republic , and in Utopia More acknowledges his debt to that book .
We find it in that `` common way of life pleasing to Christ and still in use among the truest societies of Christians '' , that is , the better monasteries which made it easier to convert the Utopians to Christianity .
This conception was taken up by the early Church Fathers and by canon lawyers and theologians in the Middle Ages ; ;
We are concerned not with the genus communism nor with other species of the genus : Platonic , Stoic , early Christian , monastic , canonist or theological communism ; ;
we are concerned with Utopian communism -- that is , simply communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of Utopia , as More conceived it .
In Plato's Republic communism is -- to speak anachronistically -- a communism of Janissaries .
Moreover , it is too readily forgotten that in the Republic what gave the initial impetus to Plato's excursus into the construction of an imaginary commonwealth with its ruling-class communism of goods , wives , and children , was his quest for a canon for the proper ordering of the individual human psyche ; ;
In More's Utopia communism is not a means of separating out a warrior elite from the lumpish mass .
To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's Republic : in the Republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes .
Finally , the conception of the natural community of all possessions which originated with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time , although it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the Middle Ages .
In that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in the age of innocence before the Fall of Man .
The actual function of patristic communism was adequately set forth by St. Gregory almost a millenium before More wrote Utopia .
In contrast to this Stoic-patristic view , Utopia implies that the nature of man is such that to rely on individual conscience to supply the deficiencies of municipal law is to embark on the bottomless sea of human sinfulness in a sieve .
We do not deny originality to the Agamemnon because Aeschylus found the tales of the house of Atreus among the folk lore of the Greeks .
and for this statement the best evidence comes within the five years following the publication of Utopia , when Martin Luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the Divine's encounter with man .
New , indeed , is Luther's perception , but not modern , as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible to modern students what Luther was getting at .
It is not the details of Utopian communism that make Utopia modern , it is the spirit , the attitude of mind that informs those details .
What that spirit and attitude were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history , the one which reached Christianity by the way of Stoicism through the Church Fathers of Late Antiquity .
During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration of Independence .
During the Brown trial , however , the state's most powerful Democratic newspaper , the Providence Daily Post , stated that Brown was a murderer , a man of blood , and that he and his associates , with the assistance of Republicans and Abolitionists , had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow of state and federal governments .
The Providence Daily Journal answered the Daily Post by stating that the raid of John Brown was characteristic of Democratic acts of violence and that `` He was acting in direct opposition to the Republican Party , who proclaim as one of their cardinal principles that they do not interfere with slavery in the states '' .
While the Daily Post continued to accuse Republicans and the Daily Journal continued to accuse Democrats , the Woonsocket Patriot complained that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly haste to condemn Brown and his men .
Editor Foss stated , `` Of their guilt there can be no doubt but they are entitled to sufficient time to prepare for trial , and a fair trial '' .
The Providence Daily Post thought that there were probably good reasons for the haste in which the trial was being conducted and that the only thing gained by a delay would be calmer feelings .
The Providence Daily Journal stated that although the guilt of Brown was evident , the South must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace .
On October 31 , 1859 , John Brown was found guilty of treason against the state of Virginia , inciting slave rebellion , and murder .
For these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on Friday , December 2 , 1859 .
Upon receiving the news , Northern writers , editors , and clergymen heaped accusations of murder on the Southern states , particularly Virginia .
Although Rhode Islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched John Brown's trial with extreme interest .
On Wednesday morning , November 2 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown justly deserved the extreme penalty , no man , however criminal , ought to suffer the penalty without a fair trial .
The readers of the Providence Daily Post , however , learned that it was generally conceded that `` Old Brown '' had a fair trial .
Concerning the sentence the editor asked , `` What else can Virginia do than to hang the men who have defied her laws , organized treason , and butchered her citizens '' .
J. Wheaton Smith , editor of the Warren Telegraph stated that `` the ends of justice must be satisfied , a solitary example must be set , in order that all those misnamed philantropists , who , actuated by a blind zeal , dare to instigate riot , treason , and murder , may heed it and shape their future course accordingly '' .
The editor of the Newport Advertiser could discover no evidence of extenuating circumstances in the Brown trial which would warrant making an exception to the infliction of capital punishment .
In direct contrast to the other Rhode Island editors , Samuel S. Foss of the Woonsocket Patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair .
Concerning the sentence , Foss wrote , `` If it be possible that mercy shall override vengeance and that John Brown's sentence shall be commuted to imprisonment , it would be well -- well for the country and for Virginia '' .
Despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown , Rhode Islanders turned their attention to the state elections .
If it failed on occasion to elect its candidates for general state offices by majorities , the failure was due to a lingering remnant of the Know-Nothing party , which called itself the American Republican party .
The American Republicans and the Republicans both nominated Lieutenant-Governor Turner for governor .
Elisha R. Potter was the Democratic candidate .
The results of the election of 1859 found Republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two Congressional offices from the eastern and western sections of the state .
During the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers .
On November 7 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal reprinted a letter sent to John Brown from `` E. B. '' , a Quaker lady in Newport .
`` E. B. '' compared John Brown to Moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from oppression .
In contrast to `` E. B. '' , most Rhode Islanders hardly thought of John Brown as being another Moses .
Most attempts to develop any sympathy for Brown and his actions found an unresponsive audience in Rhode Island .
On Wednesday evening , November 23 , 1859 , in Warren , Rev. Mark Trafton of New Bedford , gave a `` Mission of Sympathy '' lecture in which he favorably viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection .
The Warren Telegraph stated that many of Rev. Trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored strongly of radicalism and fanaticism .
In its account of the Trafton lecture , the Providence Daily Post said that the remarks of Rev. Trafton made the people indignant .
No sympathy or admiration for Brown could be found in the Providence Daily Post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy .
The Providence Daily Journal , however , stated that Brown's courage , bravery , and heroism `` in a good cause would make a man a martyr ; ;
The Woonsocket Patriot admitted that John Brown might deserve punishment or imprisonment `` but he should no more be hung than Henry A. Wise or James Buchanan '' .
The Newport Mercury exhibited more concern over the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of Brown than it did over the development of sympathy for him .
In her letter to John Brown , `` E. B. '' , the Quakeress from Newport , had suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington .
During the latter days of November to the day of Brown's execution , it seems that most Rhode Islanders did not concur in `` E. B.'s '' suggestion .
On November 22 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown's `` pluck '' and honest fanaticism must be admired , any honor paid to Brown would only induce other fanatics to imitate his actions .
A week later the Daily Journal had discovered the initial plans of some Providence citizens to hold a meeting honoring John Brown on the day of his execution .
The editor of the Daily Journal warned , `` that if such a demonstration be made , it will not find support or countenance from any of the men whose names are recognized as having a right to speak for Providence '' .
The Providence Daily Post's editor wrote that he could not believe that a meeting honoring Brown was to be held in Providence .
On December 2 , 1859 , John Brown was hanged at Charles Town , Virginia .
Such was not the case in Rhode Island .
The only public demonstration in honor of John Brown was held at Pratt's Hall in Providence , on the day of his execution .
Despite the opposition of the city newspapers , the Pratt Hall meeting `` brought together a very respectable audience , composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years for their radical views upon the subject of slavery , of many of our colored citizens , and of those who were attracted to the place by the novelty of such a gathering '' .
Seated on the platform were Amos C. Barstow , ex-mayor of Providence and a wealthy Republican stove manufacturer ; ;
Thomas Davis , an uncompromising Garrisonian ; ;
the Reverend Augustus Woodbury , a Unitarian minister ; ;
the Reverend George T. Day , a Free-Will Baptist ; ;
Daniel W. Vaughan , and William H. H. Clements .
The first speaker was Amos C. Barstow who had been unanimously chosen president of the meeting .
He spoke of his desire to promote the abolition of slavery by peaceable means and he compared John Brown of Harper's Ferry to the John Brown of Rhode Island's colonial period .
Barstow concluded that as Rhode Island's John Brown became a canonized hero , if not a saint , so would it be with John Brown of Harper's Ferry .
The next speaker was George T. Day .
Although admitting Brown's guilt on legal grounds , Day said that , `` Brown is no common criminal ; ;
Following Day was Woodbury who spoke of his disapproval of Brown's attempt at servile insurrection , his admiration of Brown's character , and his opposition to slavery .
The fourth and last speaker was Thomas Davis .
In the remainder of his speech Davis spoke of his admiration for Brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they `` are liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding men whom the laws have condemned '' .
He recalled that in Rhode Island a party opposed to the state's condemnation of a man ( Thomas W. Dorr ) proclaimed the state's action as a violation of the law of the land and the principles of human liberty .
Whereas , John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper : Therefore ,
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice .
Resolved , that we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible .
On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the Providence Daily Journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely .
To reinforce , and sometimes to replace , the simulated typography , Braque and Picasso began to mix sand and other foreign substances with their paint ; ;
It was for this reason , and no other that I can see , that in September 1912 , Braque took the radical and revolutionary step of pasting actual pieces of imitation-woodgrain wallpaper to a drawing on paper , instead of trying to simulate its texture in paint .
It is true that his first collage looks more Analytical than Braque's , which would confirm the date he assigns it .
( It makes no real difference that Braque's collage is on paper and eked out in charcoal , while Picasso's is on canvas and eked out in oil .
In their very first collages , Braque and Picasso draw or paint over and on the affixed paper or cloth , so that certain of the principal features of their subjects as depicted seem to thrust out into real , bas-relief space -- or to be about to do so -- while the rest of the subject remains imbedded in , or flat upon , the surface .
In the upper center of Braque's first collage , Fruit Dish ( in Douglas Cooper's collection ) , a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture plane .
In the Analytical phase of their Cubism , Braque and Picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply in order to preserve it ; ;
It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with a unique dilemma : they had to choose between illusion and representation .
In the end , Picasso and Braque plumped for the representational , and it would seem they did so deliberately .
When the smaller facet-planes of Analytical Cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large , dense shapes formed by the affixed materials of the collage , they had to coalesce -- become `` synthesized '' -- into larger planar shapes themselves simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane .
It was because of this chain-reaction as much as for any other reason -- that is , because of the growing independence of the planar unit in collage as a shape -- that the identity of depicted objects , or at least parts of them , re-emerged in Braque's and Picasso's papiers colles and continued to remain more conspicuous there -- but only as flattened silhouettes -- than in any of their paintings done wholly in oil before the end of 1913 .
Synthetic Cubism began with Picasso alone , late in 1913 or early in 1914 ; ;
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York .
Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass .
The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) .
Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit .
The drive along Massachusetts' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future .
The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees .
They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid .
It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly .
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest .
No suburban shopping-center branch -- not even Hudson's vast Northland outside Detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store .
Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St. Louis have been driving across the Mississippi , through the heart of downtown St. Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping , simply because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart of town .
To the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus , Ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door .
Today , according to land economist Homer Hoyt , shopping centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres of land , which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation's Central Business Districts put together .
In their book , American Skyline , Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote .
The first superhighways -- New York's Henry Hudson and Chicago's Lake Shore , San Francisco's Bay Bridge and its approaches , a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike -- were built as part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression .
At the same time , Roosevelt's Federal Housing Administration , coupled with Henry Morgenthau's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes .
Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U. S. government ; ;
Before losing itself in the sands of the 19th Century , the grand stream of Italian Renaissance architectural decoration made a last appearance in the Brumidi frescos of the Capitol Rotunda in Washington .
The artistic generation after Brumidi was trained in the Paris of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution , and tended to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were easy to find .
The open ceiling , with allegorical and classical figures thrown in masses against the sky : the closed frieze , formally divided into historical scenes and tightly tied to the stone walls , belong in their large ordering to the line of Correggio and his Baroque followers .
The descent may be remote , but this is surely the only full-scale example of that vigorous inheritance in the United States .
Constantino Brumidi designed the decorative scheme as a whole , in collaboration with the architect Charles U. Walter , at the time when plans were being made to replace the wooden dome of Bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure .
After many years and many interruptions he was able to finish the canopy fresco , and slightly less than half the frieze , beginning with the Liberty group opposite the East door , and ending with William Penn , all but one leg , when a tragic accident ended his career .
These were carried out not too faithfully by Filippo Costaggini , who began by supplying the missing member to the founder of Pennsylvania and noting in pencil , in Italian , that he `` began at this point '' .
Then , advised by the Architect of the Capitol , the Joint Committee for the Library , traditionally responsible for the works of art in the building , ordered the space cleared and painted in fresco , to show `` the Peace after the Civil War '' , `` the Spanish-American War '' , and `` the Birth of Aviation '' , to match as nearly as feasible Brumidi's technique and composition .
These may be consulted in the office of the Architect of the Capitol , or the Library of Congress .
What bits of Brumidi and Costaggini could be reached at either end seemed in good order , though the roughish sandy surface was thick with dust .
It could be seen that both artists used a very thick final coat of plaster , one half inch , and that both followed the traditional Italian fresco technique as described by Cennino Cennini in the 14th Century , and current in Italy to this day .
For convenience we chose a stronger pigment , unknown to the early Italians or to Brumidi , titanium oxide , reserving the active lime white for highest lights , put on at the end of the day's stint .
Later Brumidi and Costaggini will be seen coping with this same problem .
On the right is the Brumidi Liberty group , as it looked after cleaning operations , which had not yet come around to the other end ; ;
Whosever fault , it is evident that Brumidi intended to fill out the whole frieze with his `` histories '' and come full circle with the scene of the discovery of California gold .
At the very first , then , Brumidi was required , by the classically pyramidal shape of his central group , to fill in the triangular space above the seated girl on Liberty's right , before starting on the allegorical figures themselves .
The photograph , Figure 1 of the completed frieze , shows how , having been separated from his fellows in useless isolation for eighty years , he has now been given a hand , and by juxtaposition ( and the permission of the Committee ) , given a new job , to represent the witnesses of the first flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903 .
The startlingly bright effect of the first washings led the Committee to order the rest of the Brumidi-Costaggini cycle cleaned and restored to go with them .
The greatest source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings above , soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime , very conspicuous even after cleaning , particularly in the `` Landing of Columbus '' , `` Oglethorpe and the Indians '' , and `` Yorktown '' .
Here the Architect , referring to the use of the Capitol as a public building , not a museum , requested some repainting to maintain decorative effect , rather than leaving blank , unsightly patches .
It may well be that , when Rudy Pozzatti and I visited your country last spring , you were living and working close to the places we saw and the streets we walked .
As American artists , it was natural that we would want to meet as many Soviet artists as possible .
It is my hope that this written message and report will reach you through the good offices of the Union of Soviet Artists .
If this attitude is seriously questioned in the Soviet Union , it does not necessarily follow that the majority of the society in which I live is too aware of the necessity for clarity on this ethical as well as aesthetic point of view .
I encountered many questions and great interest upon my return from the Soviet Union about my reactions to that experience .
Difficult as it may have been at times , Pozzatti and I saw enough , talked to enough artists , historians and others to realize that the issue is quite clear .
It cannot be said that our very first day in the Soviet Union turned out to be an ordinary one .
On that cold , but bright , April day we were guests of your government in the reviewing stand of Red Square to witness the poeple's celebration for Yuri Gagarin and later on that day we attended the somewhat more exclusive reception for him in one of the impressive palaces of the Kremlin .
We stood under a gigantic tree in the rolling country just outside of Moscow looking at silent flowers on the grave of a Russian poet and writer who cherished the love for his country to the point of foregoing the highest international honor .
When I speculated on one such occasion that the new growth , like other mutations , might be unable to propagate , I was immediately accused of preaching racial prejudice .
A chance remark about Lenin's sealed train brought the rejoinder that this was a myth akin to George Washington's cherry tree .
No wonder that Pozzatti and I had at times difficulty in remembering the real purpose of our presence , namely , Cultural Exchange .
Typical of such an experience was the occasion of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the Union of Soviet Artists .
It was only after we had responded , with what I fear were similar cliches , that she went into action by questioning our desire for friendship and understanding with a challenge about aggressive and warlike actions by the U.S. Government in Cuba and Laos .
Unfortunately she returned later , just as I had taken advantage of the friendlier atmosphere in the room by stating that perhaps an unexpected result of the Cultural Exchange Program would be the re-emergence of Abstract Art in Russia , with Social Realism regaining dominance in the U.S. .
She did not go so far as to say , as was done on other occasions , that Abstraction as well as Impressionism were a Russian invention that had been discarded as unwanted by the people of the U.S.S.R.
Pozzatti and I could not know then that we would experience this sort of treatment more often in Moscow than elsewhere .
We were to discover , in fact , that quite a number of people share with us the impression that , in contrast to other Soviet regions , Moscow's atmosphere is depressingly subdued and official .
Until our Moscow experience , I had not considered it necessary to prepare any argument formally or informally .
and , furthermore , I could not presume the implication that I spoke for American artists as a group .
The Sane Society is an ambitious work .
It is a simple matter , for one so disposed , to take a work like The Sane Society and shred it into odds and ends .
Since I have already discussed his moral position , that discussion is incorporated by reference into the following pages , which will focus on the empirical and analytic side of Fromm's treatment .
The idea has received much attention in philosophy , in literature , and in a few works of general social criticism , such as The Sane Society .
What is missing is work that would answer , presumably by the use of survey methods and Guttman-type attitude scales , such questions as these : What are the components of the feeling-state described as alienation ? ?
For all these points he relies exclusively on Berle and Means's study of 1932 , The Modern Corporation And Private Property .
Eric Hoffer , for example , once said that America was a paradise -- the only one in the history of the world -- for workingmen and small children .
Fromm also cites a poll on attitudes toward work restriction conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation in 1945 , in which 49 per cent of manual workers said a man ought to turn out as much as he could in a day's work , while 41 per cent said he should not do his best but should turn out only the average amount .
In a brief chapter dealing with `` Various Other Diagnoses '' , he quotes isolated passages from some writers whose views seem to corroborate his own , and finds it `` most remarkable that a critical view of twentieth-century society was already held by a number of thinkers living in the nineteenth .
Glance at the list : Burckhardt , Tolstoy , Proudhon , Thoreau , London , Marx , Tawney , Mayo , Durkheim , Tannenbaum , Mumford , A. R. Heron , Huxley , Schweitzer , and Einstein .
It omits , for example , practically the whole line of great nineteenth century English social critics , nearly all the great writers whose basic position is religious , and all those who are with more or less accuracy called Existentialists .
If one characteristic distinguishes Boris Godunov , it is the consistency with which every person on the stage -- including the chorus -- comes alive in the music .
such composers as Monteverdi , Lully and Purcell , with the same goal in mind , had developed styles of recitative sensitively attuned to their own languages .
Through long experimentation in his songs , Mussorgsky developed a Russian recitative as different from others as the language itself .
Otherwise Mussorgsky reserves his vocal melodies for prolonged expressions of emotion -- Boris' first monologue , for example .
Aside from Boris himself , one need but examine the secondary roles to place Mussorgsky among the masters of musical portraiture .
Consider the four monks who figure prominently in the action : Pimen , Varlaam , Missail and the Jesuit Rangoni .
Varlaam and Missail always appear together and often sing together , in a straightforward , rhythmically vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from the more subtle and well-educated Pimen .
The Song Of Kazan , in which this figure becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment , fills in the picture of undisciplined high spirits .
Musically and dramatically , Rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as Varlaam .
His music shows a sensuality coupled with an eerie quality that suggest somehow a blood-kinship with Dappertutto in Offenbach's Hoffman .
He addresses Marina with great deference , calling her `` Princess '' at first ; ;
Curiously , this scene is a close parallel to one that Verdi was writing at the same time , the scene between Amonasro and Aida .
Whatever the source of Rangoni's power , Marina is his captive now ; ;
the conflict is not Boris versus Grigori or Shuiski or even the ghost of the murdered child , but Boris versus the Russian people .
Boris' first entrance seems almost a footnote to the splendor of the Coronation Scene , with its dazzling confusion of tonalities .
We have a brief glimpse of the Tsar's public personality , the `` official Boris '' , but our real focus is on the excitement of the crowd -- a significant contrast with its halfhearted acclamation in the opening scene , its bitter resentment and fury in the final act .
In Pimen's cell the soft prayers of the monks , heard from offstage , not only help to set the scene but emphasize the contrast between young Grigori's thoughts and his situation .
This is especially striking between Pimen's quiet exit and Grigori's vehement outburst against Boris .
Again , as Boris feels himself nearing death , a procession files into the hall singing a hymn , its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch to the grim atmosphere : The words are hardly calculated to put the Tsar's mind at ease .
One of the outstanding assets of the present production is the restoration of the St. Basil's scene , usually omitted from performances and rarely included in a published score .
In addition , it is an important link in the plot , giving us a revealing glimpse of the people's attitude toward Boris and the false Dimitri .
The St. Basil's scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the square , the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny .
) There is still more news , Mityukh announces : they have prayed for the soul of the Tsarevich .
For critics , Hardy has had no poetic periods -- one does not speak of early Hardy or late Hardy , or of the London or Max Gate period , but simply of Hardy , as of a poetic monolith .
This seems odd when one recalls that he wrote poetry longer than any other major English poet : `` Domicilium '' is dated `` between 1857 and 1860 '' ; ;
`` Seeing The Moon Rise '' is dated August , 1927 .
the `` sober opinion '' of his letter to Noyes , written when Hardy was eighty years old , is essentially that of his first `` philosophical '' notebook entry , made when he was twenty-five : `` The world does not despise us : it only neglects us '' ( Early Life , p. 63 ) .
The bad early poems are bad Shakespeare or bad Swinburne ; ;
About a quarter of Hardy's poems carry an appended date line , usually the year of completion , but sometimes inclusive years ( `` 1908 - 1910 '' ) or two separate dates when Hardy worked on the poem ( `` 1905 and 1926 '' ) or an approximate date ( `` During the War '' ) .
With the exception of Satires Of Circumstance , each volume contains dated poems ranging over several decades ( Winter Words spans sixty-one years ) ; ;
the internal organization rarely has any chronological order , except in obvious groups like the `` Poems of Pilgrimage '' , the `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' , and the war poems .
Poems Of The Past And The Present and Time's Laughing Stocks , both published while Hardy was at work on The Dynasts , draw heavily on poems written before 1900 .
Satires Of Circumstance and Moments Of Vision , coming during his most productive decade , are relatively self-contained ; ;
The first productive period came when he was considering poetry as a vocation , before he had decided to write fiction for a living ( in his note for Who's Who he wrote that he `` wrote verses 1865 - 1868 ; ;
During the poetically sterile years he was writing novels at the rate of almost one a year and was , in addition , burdened with bad health ( he spent six months in bed in 1881 , too ill to do more than work slowly and painfully at A Laodicean ) .
Two entries in The Early Life support the assumption that during this period Hardy had virtually suspended the writing of poetry .
Mrs. Hardy records that `` at the end of November ( 1881 ) he makes a note of an intention to resume poetry as soon as possible '' ( Early Life , p. 188 ) ; ;
and on Christmas Day , 1890 , Hardy wrote : `` While thinking of resuming ' the viewless Wings Of Poesy before dawn this morning , new horizons seemed to open , and worrying pettinesses to disappear '' ( Early Life , p. 302 ) .
There are more poems dated in the 1890's than in the '80's -- Hardy had apparently resumed the viewless wings as he decreased the volume of his fiction -- but none in 1891 , the year of Tess , and only one in 1895 , the year of Jude .
After 1895 the number increases , and in the next thirty years there is only one year for which there is no dated poem -- 1903 , when Hardy was at work on The Dynasts .
The second productive period , the decade from 1910 to 1920 , can be related to three events : the completion of The Dynasts in 1909 , which left Hardy free of pressure for the first time in forty years ; ;
the death of Emma Hardy in 1912 , which had a profound emotional effect on Hardy for which he found release in poetry ; ;
and the First World War .
It may seem strange that a poet should come to full fruition in his seventies , but we have it on Hardy's own authority that `` he was a child till he was sixteen , a youth till he was five-and-twenty , and a young man till he was nearly fifty '' ( Early Life , p. 42 ) .
Like a wise gardener , Hardy pruned away the Shakespearian sonnets and songs , and the elements of meter and poetic diction to which his personal style was not suited , and let the main stock of his talent flourish .
We can see the general characteristics of the earlier decade if we look at two poems of very different qualities : `` Revulsion '' ( 1866 ) and `` Neutral Tones '' ( 1867 ) .
`` Neutral Tones '' we immediately recognize as a fine poem in Hardy's most characteristic style : the plain but not quite colloquial language , the hard , particular , colorless images , the slightly odd stanza-form , the dramatic handling of the occasion , the refusal to resolve the issue -- all these we have seen in Hardy's best poems .
The details of the setting of `` Neutral Tones '' are not , strictly speaking , metaphorical , but they combine to create a mood which is appropriate both to a dismal winter day and to the end of love , and in this way love and weather , the emotions and the elements , symbolize each other in a way that is common to many of Hardy's best poems ( `` Weathers '' , `` The Darkling Thrush '' , and `` During Wind and Rain '' , for example ) and to some moving passages in the novels as well ( Far From The Madding Crowd is full of scenes constructed in this way ) .
`` Neutral Tones '' is an excellent example of Hardy's mature style , drawn from his earliest productive period ; ;
In the 1860 - 70 decade there are many poems like `` Revulsion '' , but there is only one `` Neutral Tones '' .
The `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' offer a good example of Hardy's style as it was manifested in the later productive decade .
They are the only poems that he rearranged as a group between their first appearance ( in Satires Of Circumstance ) and the publication of the Collected Poems .
`` Disaffiliation '' , by the way , is the term used by the critic and poet , Lawrence Lipton , who has written several articles on this subject , the first of which , in The Nation , quoted as Epigraph : `` We disaffiliate .
'' -- John L. Lewis .
Like the pillars of Hercules , like two ruined Titans guarding the entrance to one of Dante's circles , stand two great dead juvenile delinquents -- the heroes of the post-war generation : the great saxophonist , Charlie Parker , and Dylan Thomas .
Living in San Francisco I saw them seldom enough to see them with a perspective which was not distorted by exasperation or fatigue .
The last time I saw Bird , at Jimbo's Bob City , he was so gone -- so blind to the world -- that he literally sat down on me before he realized I was there .
I said , referring to the pretentious `` Jazz Concert '' .
The last time I saw Dylan , his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality .
Now Dylan Thomas and Charlie Parker have a great deal more in common than the same disastrous end .
Music , of course , is not so explicit an art , but anybody who knew Charlie Parker knows that he felt much the same way about his own gift .
It is the theme of Horace , who certainly otherwise bears little resemblance to Parker or Thomas .
To Dylan and Bird it was an agony and terror .
Horace's column of imperishable verse shines quietly enough in the lucid air of Augustan Rome .
Dylan Thomas's verse had to find endurance in a world of burning cities and burning Jews .
Thomas is a regression from the technical originality and ingenuity of writers like Pierre Reverdy or Apollinaire .
What Parker and his contemporaries -- Gillespie , Davis , Monk , Roach ( Tristano is an anomaly ) , etc. -- did was to absorb the musical ornamentation of the older jazz into the basic structure , of which it then became an integral part , and with which it then developed .
This is true of the melodic line which could be put together from selected passages of almost anybody -- Benny Carter , Johnny Hodges .
It is the difference between Bach and Mozart .
The special syntactical effects of a Rimbaud or an Edith Sitwell -- actually ornaments -- become the main concern .
The metaphysical conceits , which fascinate the Reactionary Generation still dominant in backwater American colleges , were embroideries .
This is one difference between Bird and Dylan which should be pointed out .
Emotionally it does not resemble Berlioz or Wagner ; ;
This is true also of a painter like Jackson Pollock .
Technique pure and simple , rendition , is not of major importance , but it is interesting that Parker , following Lester Young , was one of the leaders of the so-called saxophone revolution .
Metrically , Thomas's verse was extremely conventional , as was , incidentally , the verse of that other tragic enrage , Hart Crane .
A poem by Dylan Thomas , a saxophone solo by Charles Parker , a painting by Jackson Pollock -- these are pure confabulations as ends in themselves .
Just as Hart Crane had little influence on anyone except very reactionary writers -- like Allen Tate , for instance , to whom Valery was the last word in modern poetry and the felicities of an Apollinaire , let alone a Paul Eluard were nonsense -- so Dylan Thomas's influence has been slight indeed .
In fact , his only disciple -- the only person to imitate his style -- was W. S. Graham , who seems to have imitated him without much understanding , and who has since moved on to other methods .
Thomas's principal influence lay in the communication of an attitude -- that of the now extinct British romantic school of the New Apocalypse -- Henry Treece , J. F. Hendry , and others -- all of whom were quite conventional poets .
At one time it was the ambition of every saxophone player in every high school band in America to blow like Bird .
In fact , the whole generation of the founding fathers of bop -- Gillespie , Monk , Davis , Blakey , and the rest -- are just now at a considerable discount .
The main line of development today goes back to Lester Young and by-passes them .
There is no longer any sense of continuing development of the sort that can be traced from Baudelaire to Eluard , or for that matter , from Hawthorne through Henry James to Gertrude Stein .
The cubist generation before World War 1 , , and , on a lower level , the surrealists of the period between the wars , both assumed an accepted universe of discourse , in which , to quote Andre Breton , it was possible to make definite advances , exactly as in the sciences .
Continuity exits , but like the neo-swing music developed from Lester Young , it is a continuity sustained by popular demand .
Surrealists like Hans Arp and Max Ernst might talk of creation by hazard -- of composing pictures by walking on them with painted soles , or by tossing bits of paper up in the air .
Nothing looks anything like an Ernst or an Arp but another Ernst or Arp .
It is curious that at its best , the work of this school of painting -- Mark Rothko , Jackson Pollock , Clyfford Still , Robert Motherwell , Willem De-Kooning , and the rest -- resembles nothing so much as the passage painting of quite unimpressive painters : the mother-of-pearl shimmer in the background of a Henry McFee , itself a formula derived from Renoir ; ;
Hrothgar's court bard sings of the encounters at Finnsburg ( lines 1068 - 1159 ) , and improvises the tale of Beowulf's exploits in a complimentary comparison of the Geatish visitor with Sigemund ( lines 871 - 892 ) ; ;
Alcinous' court bard sings of the discovered adultery of Ares and Aphrodite ( Odyssey 8 266-366 ) , and takes up a tale of Odysseus while the Ithacan wanderer listens on ( Odyssey 8 499-520 ) .
Nothing in all this is autobiographical : unlike the poets of Deor and Widsith , the poet of Beowulf is not concerned with his own identity ; ;
the poet of The Odyssey , reputed blind , reveals himself not at all in singing of the blind minstrel Demodocus .
Since none of these glimpses of poetizing without writing is intended to incorporate a signature into the epic matter , there is prima-facie evidence that Beowulf and the Homeric poems each derive from an oral tradition .
That such a tradition lies behind The Iliad and The Odyssey , at least , is hard to deny .
Milman Parry rigorously defended the observation that the extant Homeric poems are largely formulaic , and was led to postulate that they could be shown entirely formulaic if the complete corpus of Greek epic survived ; ;
Proceeding from Parry's conclusions and adopting one of his schemata , Francis P. Magoun , Jr. , argues that Beowulf likewise was created from a legacy of oral formulas inherited and extended by bards of successive generations , and the thesis is striking and compelling .
Yet a fresh inspection will indicate one crucial amendment : Beowulf and the Homeric poems are not at all formulaic to the same extent .
Assonance seems nearly as severe a curb , although in a celebrated passage William of Malmesbury declares that A Song Of Roland was intoned before the battle commenced at Hastings .
the verse of Beowulf or of The Iliad and The Odyssey was not easy to create but was not impossible for poets who had developed their talents perforce in earning a livelihood .
Other synonyms could of course serve the same function , and for the sake of ease I shall speak of kennings and epithets in the widest and loosest possible sense , and name , for example , Gar-Dene a kenning for the Danes .
Limited to a few thousand lines of heroic verse in Anglo-Saxon as in the other Germanic dialects , we cannot say how frequently the kennings in Beowulf recurred in contemporary epic on the same soil .
One of the greatest Homerists of our time , Frederick M. Combellack , argues that when it is assumed The Iliad and The Odyssey are oral poems , the postulated single redactor called Homer cannot be either credited with or denied originality in choice of phrasing .
no individual word in The Iliad or The Odyssey can be credited to any one man ; ;
This observation is of interest not only to students of Homeric poetry but to students of Anglo-Saxon poetry as well .
Combellack argues further , and here he makes his main point , that once The Iliad and The Odyssey are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to formulaic poetry , Homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they previously found arable .
W. F. Bryan suggests that certain kennings in Beowulf were selected sometimes for appropriateness and sometimes for ironic inappropriateness , but such a view would appear untenable unless it is denied that the language of Beowulf is formulaic .
True , we do not know how they were regarded in their day , but we need not believe the epic audience to have been more insensitive to the formulas than the numerous scholars of modern times who have read Germanic or Homeric poetry all their lives and still found much to admire in occasional occurrences of the most familiar phrases .
Even when defenseless of weapons the Danes would be Gar-Dene ( as their king is Hrothgar ) and Priam would be EUMMELIHS .
Achilles , like Siegfried in The Nibelungenlied , is potentially the swiftest of men and may accordingly be called swift-footed even when he stands idle .
In Coriolanus the agnomen of Marcius is used deliberately and pointedly , but the Homeric epithets and the Anglo-Saxon kennings are used casually and recall to the hearer `` a familiar story or situation or a useful or pleasant quality of the referent '' .
Albert B. Lord suggests that the Homeric poems were dictated to a scribe by a minstrel who held in his mind the poems fully matured but did not himself possess the knowledge of writing since it would be useless to his guild , and Magoun argues that the Beowulf poet and Cynewulf may have dictated their verse in the same fashion .
If Cynewulf was literate , the Beowulf poet may have been also , and so may the final redactor of The Iliad and The Odyssey .
Other theories of origin are compatible with the formulaic theory : Beowulf may contain a design for terror , and The Iliad may have a vast hysteron-proteron pattern answering to a ceramic pattern produced during the Geometric Period in pottery .
Carl Eduard Schmidt counted 1804 different lines repeated exactly in the two Homeric poems , and by increasing this figure so as to include lines repeated with very slight modifications he counted 2118 different lines used a total of 5612 times .
Thus one line in five from The Iliad and The Odyssey is to be found somewhere else in the two poems .
The Iliad has two words for the shield , ASPIS and SAKOS .
Recent criticism of Great Expectations has tended to emphasize its symbolic and mythic content , to show , as M. D. Zabel has said of Dickens generally , that much of the novel's impact resides in its `` allegoric insight and moral metaphor '' .
J. H. Miller's excellent chapter on Great Expectations has lately illustrated how fruitfully that novel can be read from such a perspective .
In Great Expectations the hands become almost an obsession .
Old Mr. Pocket's frantic response to life imprisonment with a useless , social-climbing wife is to `` put his two hands into his disturbed hair '' and `` make an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it '' , whereas Joe Gargery endures the shrewish onslaughts of Mrs. Joe by apologetically drawing `` the back of his hand across and across his nose '' .
Such mannerisms would be less worthy of remark , were it not that in Great Expectations , as in no other of Dickens' novels , hands serve as a leitmotif of plot and theme -- a kind of unifying symbol or natural metaphor for the book's complex of human interrelationships and the values and attitudes that motivate them .
We have only to think of Lady Macbeth or the policeman-murderer in Thomas Burke's famous story , `` The Hands Of Mr. Ottermole '' , to realize that hands often call up ideas of crime and punishment .
So it is with Great Expectations , whether the hands be Orlick's as he strikes down Mrs. Gargery or Pip's as he steals a pie from her pantry .
As Pip agonizes over the theft that his own hands have committed , his guilty conscience projects itself upon the wooden finger of a local signpost , transforming it into `` a phantom devoting me to the Hulks '' .
Through such details Dickens indicates at the outset that guilt is a part of the ironic bond between Pip and Magwitch which is so unpredictably to alter both their lives .
Since they commonly translate thoughts and feelings into deeds , hands naturally represent action , and since nearly half the characters in Great Expectations are of the underworld or closely allied to it , the linking of hands with crime or violence is not to be wondered at .
Dickens , for excellent psychological reasons , never fully reveals Magwitch's felonious past , but Pip , at the convict's climactic reappearance in London , shrinks from clasping a hand which he fears `` might be stained with blood '' .
Orlick slouches about the forge `` like Cain '' with `` his hands in his pockets '' , and when he shouts abuse at Mrs. Joe for objecting to his holiday , she claps her hands in a tantrum , beats them `` upon her bosom and upon her knees '' , and clenches them in her husband's hair .
Orlick shakes his hand at Pip , bangs the table with his fist , draws his unclenched hand `` across his mouth as if his mouth watered '' for his victim , lets his hands hang `` loose and heavy at his sides '' , and Pip observes him so intensely that he knows `` of the slightest action of his fingers '' .
Orlick might almost be Magwitch's bogy man come alive , a figure of nemesis from Pip's phantasy of guilt .
The scarred , disfigured wrists of Mr. Jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister past , for her master , coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests , makes a point of the `` force of grip there is in these hands '' .
It is the similarity between Estella's hands and Molly's ( `` The action of her fingers was like the action of knitting '' ) that provides Pip with a vital clue to the real identity of both and establishes a symbolic connection between the underworld of crime and the genteel cruelty of Satis House .
Finally , Magwitch's pursuit of Compeyson , his archenemy and betrayer , begins by his holding him in a vicelike grip on the river flats to frustrate his escape and culminates in his `` laying his hand on his cloak to identify him '' , thus precipitating the death-locked struggle in the water during which Compeyson drowns .
But only in one of its aspects is Great Expectations a tale of violence , revenge , and retribution .
Pip's great expectations , his progress through illusion and disillusionment , turn , somewhat as they do for the naive hero of Dreiser's American Tragedy , upon the lure of genteel prosperity through unearned income -- what Wemmick calls `` portable property '' and what Jaggers reproaches Pip for letting `` slip through ( his ) fingers '' .
Almost the first step in the corruption of Pip's values is the unworthy shame he feels when Estella cruelly remarks the coarseness of his hands : `` They had never troubled me before , but they troubled me now , as vulgar appendages '' .
Pip imagines how Estella would look down upon Joe's hands , roughened by work in the smithy , and the deliberate contrast between her white hands and his blackened ones is made to symbolize the opposition of values between which Pip struggles -- idleness and work , artificiality and naturalness , gentility and commonness , coldness and affection -- in fact , between Satis House and the forge .
When the snobbery that alienates Pip from Joe finally gives way before the deeper and stronger force of love , the reunion is marked by an embarrassed handshake at which Pip exclaims : `` No , don't wipe it off -- for God's sake , give me your blackened hand '' ! !
Pip's abject leave-taking of Miss Havisham , during which he kneels to kiss her hand , signalizes his homage to a supposed patroness who seems to be opening up for him a new world of glamour ; ;
Incidentally , one cannot miss the significance of this gesture , for Dickens reintroduces it associatively in Pip's mind at another moral and psychological crisis -- his painful recognition , in a talk with Herbert Pocket , that his hopeless attachment to Estella is as self-destructive as it is romantic .
The vulture-like attendance of the Pocket family upon Miss Havisham is summed up in the hypocritical gestures of Miss Camilla Pocket , who puts her hand to her throat in a feigned spasm of grief-stricken choking , then lays it `` upon her heaving bosom '' with `` an unnatural fortitude of manner '' , and finally kisses it to Miss Havisham in a parody of the lady's own mannerism toward Estella .
We first see him shaking Mrs. Joe's hand on discovering the sizable amount of the premium paid to her husband for Pip's indenture as an apprentice and later pumping Pip's hands `` for the hundredth time at least '' ( `` May I -- may I -- '' ? ?
We take leave of Pumblechook as he gloats over Pip's loss of fortune , extending his hand `` with a magnificently forgiving air '' and exhibiting `` the same fat five fingers '' , one of which he identifies with `` the finger of Providence '' and shakes at Pip in a canting imputation of the latter's `` ingratitoode '' and his own generosity as Pip's `` earliest benefactor '' .
Pip first learns `` the stupendous power of money '' from the sycophantic tailor , Mr. Trabb , whose brutality to his boy helper exactly matches the financial resource of each new customer , and whose fawning hands touch `` the outside of each elbow '' and `` rub '' Pip out of the shop .
The respectability which money confers implies a different etiquette , and , upon taking up the life of a London gentleman , Pip must learn from Herbert Pocket that `` the spoon is not generally used over-hand , but under '' .
Certain Autocoder statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained in the operand ( columns 21 - 75 ) of a single line on the Autocoder coding sheet .
When this is the case , the appropriate section of this manual will indicate that `` Continuation Cards '' may be used .
The assignment of actual addresses to symbolic index word and electronic switch names occurs in Phase 3 , of the Autocoder processor .
The initial availability of index words and electronic switches is determined by a table which is included in the Compiler Systems Tape .
The initial setting of this table may be altered , however , as described in the 7070/7074 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070/7074 Compiler System : Operating Procedure '' , form Aj .
If the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an XRESERVE or SRESERVE statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved .
If the symbolic name or actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included in the operand of an XRELEASE or SRELEASE statement ( see page 101 ) , the specified index word or electronic switch will again be made available , regardless of the method by which it was reserved .
If , at any time during the assignment pass , the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Index Words Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that index words 1 through 96 are available , and the assignment will continue as before .
If the compiler finds that there are no more electronic switches available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Electronic Switches Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that electronic switches 1 through 30 are available , and assignment will continue as before .
The resultant conflicting usage of index words or electronic switches may be avoided by reducing the number of symbolic names used , e.g. , through the proper use of the EQU , XRELEASE , or SRELEASE statements .
As noted in Appendix C , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ;
7070/7074 Autocoder includes the following declarative statements : DA ( Define Area ) , DC ( Define Constant ) , DRDW ( Define Record Definition Word ) , DSW ( Define Switch ) , DLINE ( Define Line ) , EQU ( Equate ) , CODE,DTF ( Define Tape File ) , DIOCS ( Define Input/Output Control System ) , and DUF ( Descriptive Entry For Unit Records ) .
DA , DC , DTF , and DLINE require more than one entry .
Since the 7070 and 7074 make use of record definition words ( RDWS ) to read , write , move , and otherwise examine blocks of storage , the DA and DC statements provide the option of generating RDWS automatically .
When so instructed , Autocoder will generate one or more RDWS and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area with which they are to be associated .
An RDW will be of the form Af , where xxxx is the starting location of the area and yyyy is its ending location .
In some cases , it may be more advantageous to assign locations to RDWS associated with DA and DC areas in some other part of storage , i.e. , not immediately preceding the DA or DC areas .
The DRDW statement may also be used to generate an RDW defining any area specified by the programmer .
As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the DSW statement for consideration by the SETSW and logic macro-instructions .
It cannot , however , be referred to by electronic switch commands , e.g. , ESN , BSN , etc. .
The DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output Control System .
Each tape file must be described by Tape File Specifications , produced by Aj .
In addition to information related to the file and its records , the File Specifications contain subroutine locations and the location of tape label information .
A full description of the DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System '' , form Aj .
When the Input/Output Control System is to be used in a program , a DIOCS statement must be used to select the major methods of processing to be used .
The first item in the operand , IOCSIXF , is used to specify the first IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate the name IOCSIXF to it .
The second item in the operand , IOCSIXG , is used to specify the second IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate IOCSIXG to it .
Research at Fayette , Missouri on oxidation ponds has shown that the BOD in the treated effluent varied from 30 to 53 mg/l with loadings from 8 to 120 lb .
Recent studies by Weston and Stack had indicated that a turbine aerator could be added to an oxidation pond to increase the rate of oxygen transfer .
Red Bridge Subdivision
With the development of the Red Bridge Subdivision south of Kansas City , Missouri , the developer was faced with the problem of providing adequate sewage disposal .
The sewage system from Kansas City was not expected to serve the Red Bridge area for several years .
At the same time further expansion in the Red Bridge Subdivision required the construction of additional sewage treatment facilities .
The effluent was collected through two pipes and discharged to the Blue River through a surface drainage ditch .
The BOD of the influent to the pilot plant varied between 110 and 710 mg/l with an average of 350 Aj .
Examination of the data in Table 1 , shows that a few samples contributed to raising the effluent Aj .
The organic loading on the unit averaged 32 lb of BOD/day or about 2 lb BOD/day/1,000 cu ft aeration capacity .
The BOD in the drainage ditch receiving the pilot plant effluent averaged 12 Aj .
Routine microscopic examinations were made of the mixed liquor as indicated by McKinney and Gram for the various types of protozoa .
The organic concentration in the influent raw sewage ranged from 160 to 270 mg/l of BOD with an average of 230 Aj .
The BOD data are given in Table 4 .
The effluent BOD averaged 34 mg/l , a little lower than that of the study at Fayette indicated for a loading of 60 lb. Aj .
During the two weeks when the algae disappeared from the effluent BOD's in the effluent were 18 and 16 Aj .
Therefore , a broad concept of over-all submarine defense is needed for co-ordination of the Navy's efforts , for a logical presentation to the public , for industry's guidance , and as a basis for a program to the Congress .
Some are also in Albania and others are on loan to Egypt .
The submarine has increased its effectiveness by several orders of magnitude since World War 2 .
For example , effective mine barriers from Florida to Cuba and across the Yucatan Channel from Cuba to Mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense , inshore patrol , convoy escort , shipping control , and mine defense for the entire Gulf of Mexico .
More extended systems , covering all passage into the Caribbean , would free the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico from the previously listed requirements .
Systems covering the Gulf of St. Lawrence and possibly the entire coasts of the United States are not impossible .
Two metabolites ( 1 , and 2 ) ) of p-aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) which act as cofactors for the hydroxylation of aniline by acid-fast bacteria are biosynthesized from Aj .
The 7 carbons of PABA are incorporated directly into metabolite 2 ( ( as shown with both ring-labeled and carboxy-labeled Af ) .
( N. H. Sloane ; ;
( E. G. Erdos , L. E. Boggs , C. D. Mackey ) biophysical studies on modified fibrous proteins
( R. V. Rice )
( R. V. Rice , M. D. Maser ) studies on peptides and peptidases
special equipment required for registering respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles under various conditions was developed by the Instruments Section ( Victor Jackman , W. C. Barnes , J. F. Reiss ) ; ;
( E. G. Erdos , C. D. Mackey , A. G. Renfrew , W. B. Severs , E. M. Sloane ) seed proteins
( E. F. Casassa , H. J. Notarius )
( B. D. Coleman with Walter Noll , Department of Mathematics , Carnegie Institute of Technology ) viscoelastic measurements
( Hershel Markovitz , D.J. Plazek , Haruo Nakayasu )
This glass is probably formed from Libyan Desert sands by comet or stony-meteorite impact .
No meteorites have ever been recovered from paleoexplosion craters , and recent craters containing impact glass have all been produced by metallic meteorites with the exception of Aouelloul crater , Adrar , Western Sahara Desert .
( A. J. Cohen , John Anania )
( Lauri Vaska , E. M. Sloane , J. W. DiLuzio ) In the absence of direct evidence to the contrary , decomposition of solvent alcohol and coordination of its fragments to the metal were not considered , following the above heretofore-accepted assumption in preparative coordination chemistry .
Some of the previously reported compounds have thus been reformulated and a series of new hydrido and carbonyl compounds discovered , the more representative examples being Af , Af , Af , Af and Af ( Af ) .
The coordination complexes formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and arsines are being investigated ( R. G. Hayter ) .
( J. A. Laswick , N. L. Heatwole )
( P. J. Flory , C. A. J. Hoeve ) chain conformations of polymeric chains
-- Recent theoretical work to calculate the dimensions of polymeric chains by Volkenstein and Lifson has been extended to include more general types of chains .
( C. A. J. Hoeve , A. A. Blumberg ) crystallization in polymers and copolymers
-- The crystallization of copolymers comprising Af units interspersed with a minor percentage of Af is limited by the inability of the crystal lattice characteristic of the former to accommodate the bulky side group of the latter .
( Robert Chiang , J. B. Jackson , P. J. Flory ) Carefully executed melting studies on this system ( M. J. Richardson ) permit quantitative estimation of the instability engendered by reduced crystallite length .
( C. A. J. Hoeve , P. J. Flory ) anionic Polymerization
T. V. Barker , who developed the classification-angle system , was about to begin the systematic compilation of the index when he died in 1931 .
The compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested crystallographers in the Department of Mineralogy of the University Museum at Oxford .
Since 1948 the working headquarters has been the Department of Geology and Mineralogy .
Numerous cooperating individuals in Great Britain , Holland , the United States , and Belgium have contributed editorially or by making calculations .
Great interest and practical help have been given by the Barker Index Committee .
Financial and material help have come from academic , governmental , and industrial organizations in England and Holland .
Editors for Volumes 1 , and 2 , were M. W. Porter and the late R. C. Spiller , both of Oxford University .
Volume 3 , , in preparation , will treat the anorthic compounds described in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
Most of the data used are from Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
Part 1 in both volumes is labeled `` Introduction And Tables '' .
Part 2 of Volume 1 , and Parts 2 and 3 of Volume 2 , contain the crystal descriptions .
These are grouped into sections according to the crystal system , and within each section compounds are arranged in the same order as in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
The Barker index is published for the Barker Index Committee by W. Heffer & Sons , Ltd. , 4 Petty Cury , Cambridge , England .
The present edition of crystal data was written by J.D.H. Donnay , the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Md. ( Part 2 ) ) and Werner Nowacki , University of Berne , Switzerland ( Part 1 ) ) with the collaboration of Gabrielle Donnay , U. S. Geological Survey , Washington , D. C. .
Many collaborators in the United States and Switzerland helped in collecting and assembling data , in making calculations , and in editing .
The Geological Society of America gave a grant-in-aid to complete the work and bore the expenses of publication .
Preparation of a second edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the Crystal Data Committee of the American Crystallographic Association .
Coeditors are J.D.H. Donnay , G. E. Cox of Leeds University , and Olga Kennard of the National Council for Medical Research , London .
Financial grants have been received from the National Science Foundation and the ( British ) Institute of Physics for the compilation work and the publication costs .
( Metal data will not be included in the second edition , since these have been collected independently by W. B. Pearson , National Research Council , Ottawa , and published as A handbook of lattice spacings and structures of metals and alloys by Pergamon Press .
References for Part 1 , are given at the end and for Part 2 , in the tables .
The present edition of crystal data ( Af ) , published in 1954 as Memoir 60 of the Geological Society of America , is now out of print .
The author of Crystal Structures is Ralph W.G. Wyckoff , University of Arizona , Tucson , Arizona .
The terminology used conforms to that of Internationale Tabellen Zur Bestimmung Von Kristallstrukturen .
The book is divided into chapters and in each chapter the material is grouped into Text , Tables , Illustrations , and Bibliography .
Inorganic structures are found in Chapters 2 - 12 , organic structures in Chapters 13 - 15 .
Publisher of Crystal Structures is Interscience Publishers , 250 Fifth Avenue , New York 1 , N. Y. .
Dana's System Of Mineralogy
Six editions of James Dwight Dana's System appeared between 1837 and 1892 .
In 1915 Edward S. Dana , editor of the sixth edition , asked W. E. Ford of Yale University to prepare a seventh edition of his father's work .
In that year a grant was obtained from the Penrose Fund of the Geological Society of America to finance additional full-time workers .
Money was also advanced by the publishers , John Wiley & Sons , Inc. .
The editors of this volume and Volume 2 , were the late Charles Palache , Clifford Frondel , and the late Harry Berman , all of Harvard University .
A supplementary grant from the Geological Society of America helped finance its publication .
Besides the editors there were many contributors in the United States and Great Britain to Volumes 1 , and 2 .
W. E. Ford , for example , continued to supply data on the occurrence of minerals until his death in 1939 .
The project is currently supported by Harvard University .
Recommendations of international authorities , such as the International Union of Crystallography , are followed .
Volume 1 ( ( Af ) of the seventh edition of Dana's System Of Mineralogy was published in 1944 and Volume 2 ( ( Af ) in 1951 by John Wiley & Sons , Inc. , New York , N. Y. .
( The association of Wiley & Sons with the Dana Mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published the second edition of the system .
The Groth Institute
`` The Groth Institute '' , which was established in 1958 , is a group activity affiliated with the Physics Department of The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , Pa. .
Ray Pepinsky is the Director .
The Institute derives its name from Paul Von Groth's Chemische Krystallographie , a five-volume work which appeared between 1906 and 1919 .
The Air Force Office of Scientific Research has provided financial assistance in the early stages of the Institute's program .
The first stage of operation has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing tabulations such as the Barker Index .
With the development of nuclear technology , isotopic materials , and machine radiation sources in recent years , the possibilities of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted the attention of investigators in the United States and throughout the world .
Of the various particle accelerators , the Van De Graff machines , resonant transformers , and linear accelerators are the principal ones available for commercial use .
A prime objective of the Army Quartermaster Corps program is to find the reasons for beef's low palatability and means of overcoming it , since it is a major and desirable dietary item .
Acceptance of radiopasteurization is likely to be delayed , however , for two reasons : ( 1 ) the storage life of fresh chicken under refrigeration is becoming a minimal problem because of constantly improved sanitation and distributing practices , and ( 2 ) treatment by antibiotics , a measure already approved by the Federal Food and Drug Administration , serves to extend the storage life of chicken at a low cost of about 0.5 cents per pound .
Here , H is the coatings removal force measured parallel to the surface of the substrate and T is the film thickness .
The action and reaction forces are R and Af , respectively , and are equal and opposite in direction .
An analysis of the vector relationships shows that the rake angle **yc and the friction angle **yt determine the vector direction Af of the force resultants R and Af .
In actual practice , the values most readily amenable to measurement are the cutting force Af and the shear angle Aj .
From Fig. 6 the relationship between these parameters can readily be derived and the cutting force is Af where **yl is the shear strength of the coating and is a parameter of the coatings material , W is the width of the removed coating and T is its thickness .
If the cutting force , Af , is plotted against film thickness , a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope Af .
The curvature of this bluntness is , in the case of the Carboloy knife employed in the Hesiometer , determined by the grain sizes of the polished grit and the tungsten carbide crystals cemented together in the knife body and is in the order of 0.1 to 0.2 mil. .
This reduces to the relationship : Af , where Af is the intercept at zero thickness of the extrapolation of the slope indicated in eqn. ( 1 ) , Af is the thickness of the coating equivalent to the rounding off of the knife tip , Af is a straight line first approximation of this roundness , and the other symbols are equivalent to those of eqn. ( 1 ) .
The importance of a hard , abrasion-resistant knife material like the Carboloy employed in the Hesiometer immediately becomes apparent .
This is not a constant value like Af , but varies with the thickness of the coating and the direction and magnitude of the resultants R and Af of Fig. 6 .
Under equilibrium conditions of cutting the chip exerts a thrust Af against the knife which tends to push it into the substrate or lift it away from the substrate depending on the vector direction of Af .
The resultant friction force , Af is thus directly proportional to Af and consequently also to film thickness .
A straight line relationship is usually observed in a plot of Af against load L , having slope k , and Af .
Since the load L , under actual cutting conditions is caused by Af , it can be seen that Af
The measured force , H , in cutting removal of coatings from their substrates consequently can be seen to be the sum of that force required to cut the coating , Af , that due to the bluntness of the knife , Af , and that due to the friction between the bottom of the knife and the substrate , Af , or Af .
These theoretical relationships are more clearly illustrated in Fig. 7 and their sum can be seen to correlate in form with practical measurements made with the Hesiometer as illustrated in the first portion of Fig. 5 for the cutting mechanism .
Under equilibrium cutting conditions , the chip exerts a force Af against the coating and an equal opposite force Af against the knife in the plane of the substrate as shown in Fig. 6 .
If the rake angle **yc of the knife is high enough and the friction angle **yt between the front of the knife and the back of the chip is low enough to give a positive value for Af , the resultant vector R will lie above the plane of the substrate .
In one outstanding example , Whirlpool Corp. found that by switching to urethane foam insulation , they could increase the storage capacity of gas refrigerators to make them competitive with electric models .
Readers interested in additional information on foams are referred to the Foamed Plastics Chart appearing in the Technical Data section and to the list of references which appears below .
The K factor , a term used to denote the rate of heat transmission through a material ( B.t.u./sq. ft. of material/hr./*0F./in. of thickness ) ranges from 0.24 to 0.28 for flexible urethane foams and from 0.12 to 0.16 for rigid urethane foams , depending upon the formulation , density , cell size , and nature of blowing agents used .
It is possible to identify the test procedure completely with a code consisting of a Roman Numeral , a letter , and an Arabic number .
For example Test 3 , E 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed by procedure `` 3 ( '' ( at 160-degrees-F ) for a total of 60 minutes in the machine , has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure `` E '' and has been subjected to restorative forces on the Tension Presser by procedure `` 1 '' .
Screen drying racks -- 16-mesh screening ( Saran or Velon ) .
Soap , neutral chip -- fed. Spec. 566 or Aj .
Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of Af and Af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases .
The markings consist of a centrally located 10 inch diameter measuring circle and a 14 inch diameter circle of 20 dots equidistantly spaced ( See Figure 1 ) .
When this water level has been reached , inject steam into the wheel until the temperature reaches that shown in Column B of Table 2 .
-- Stop the wash wheel at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , and drain .
Inject steam , if necessary , to reach the temperature shown in Column D of Table 2 .
Again stop the machine at the end of the time shown in Column C of Table 2 .
This procedure is repeated for the second rinse , using the temperatures and time shown in Columns F and E of Table 2 .
Drain off the soap solution of the suds cycle at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of soap and water at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
When this water level has been reached , inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj .
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A and C , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
When this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj .
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A , C , and E , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
Transmission secondary electron multiplication image intensifiers ( TSEM tubes ) , ( E )
The anode potential codetermines the gain , G , and magnification , M , of the stage .
The photocathode sensitivities S , phosphor efficiencies P , and anode potentials V of the individual stages shall be distinguished by means of subscripts 1 , and 2 , in the text , where required .
The luminous gain of a single stage with Af ( flux gain ) is , to a first approximation , given by the product of the photocathode sensitivity S ( amp / lumen ) , the anode potential V ( volts ) , and the phosphor conversion efficiency P ( lumen/watt ) .
In general , P is a function of V and the current density , but it shall here be assumed as a constant .
The luminous efficiency Af of a photocathode depends on the maximum radiant sensitivity Af and on the spectral distribution of the incident light Af by the relation : Af where Af is normalized radiant photocathode sensitivity .
If the input light distribution falls beyond the visible range , Af as expected , since Af .
The numerical aperture of the fibers is given by : Af where Af .
The angle Af is measured in the medium of index Af .
This condition can be satisfied , e.g. , with Af and Af or equivalent glass combinations .
A sufficiently good approximation for determining the end reflection losses R can be obtained from the angle independent Fresnel formula : Af .
For phosphor to fiber and fiber to air surfaces , and assuming Af , we obtain Af percent .
Hence , the Af factor for the output fiber coupler is Af .
As the index of refraction of photosensitive surfaces of the SbCs-type lies around 2 , the Fresnel losses at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the Af factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95 .
For circular fibers in a closely packed hexagonal array , the packing efficiency is given by : Af where Af , and 0.906 is the ratio of the area of a circle to that of the circumscribed hexagon .
For the small diameter fibers now technically feasible and required for about 100 Af resolution , Af .
The cladding thickness is about 0.5 M , hence , Af and Af .
The efficiency Af of an Af lens at the magnification Af is : Af .
Including the brightness gain Af due to the Af area demagnification , the overall gain of a fiber coupled double stage image intensifier is : Af .
It is obvious that the careful choice of photocathode which maximizes Af for a given input E ( in the case of the second stage , for the first phosphor screen emission ) is very important .
We have evaluated the `` matching integrals '' for two types of photocathodes ( S-11 and S-20 ) and three types of light input .
The input light distributions considered are P-11 and P-20 phosphor emission and the so-called `` night light '' ( N.L. ) as given by H.W. Babcock and J. J. Johnson .
The luminous gain of the discussed tube was calculated from Eq. ( 6 ) for the 16 possible combinations of S-11 and S-20 photocathodes and P-11 and P-20 phosphor screens , for night light and P-20 light input .
( The P-20 input is of interest because it corresponds roughly to the light emission of conventional X-ray fluorescent screens ) .
The following efficiencies obtained from JEDEC and RCA specifications were used : Af
The following table ( 14-2 ) lists the ( luminous ) gain values computed according to Eq. ( 6 ) with Af .
It should be noted that photoluminescence , due to `` Bremsstrahlung '' generated within the viewing screen by electron impact , appears to be important only if anode voltages in excess of 30 KV are utilized .
It has been stated that settled cathodoluminescent phosphor screens may have a limiting resolution of 60 Af at high voltage values of approximately 20 Aj .
For the further discussion , we shall thus assume an electron optical resolution of 80 Af and phosphor screen resolution of 60 Af .
He recognized that whatever transformation may be effected in the first stage of an R-stage process , the remaining stages must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to the state resulting from the first stage , if there is to be any chance of optimizing the complete process .
Moreover , by systematically varying the operating conditions in the first stage and always using the optimal Af-stage policy for the remaining stages , we shall eventually find the optimal policy for all R stages .
To see how important this economy is , let us suppose that there are M operating variables at each stage and that the state is specified by N variables ; ;
If all the operating variables were varied simultaneously , Af operations would be required to do the same job , and as R increases this increases very much more rapidly than the number of operations required by the dynamic program .
If the problem is enlarged to require a complete coverage of feed states , Af operations are needed by the dynamic program and Af by the direct search .
But Af is vastly larger than R .
Suppose that Af , and that the average operation requires only Af sec. .
Consider the process illustrated in Fig. 2.1 , consisting of R distinct stages .
These will be numbered in the direction opposite to the flow of the process stream , so that stage R is the T stage from the end .
Let the state of the stream leaving stage R be denoted by a vector Af and the operating variables of stage R by Af .
Thus Af denotes the state of the feed to the R-stage process , and Af the state of the product from the last stage .
Each stage transforms the state Af of its feed to the state Af in a way that depends on the operating variables Af .
The set of vectors Af constitutes the operating policy or , more briefly , the policy , and a policy is admissible if all the Af belong to S .
An optimal policy is an admissible policy Af which maximizes the objective function P .
The policy may not be unique but the maximum value of P certainly is , and once the policy is specified this maximum can be calculated by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) as a function of the feed state Af .
Let Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af .
When it is necessary to be specific we say that the optimal policy is an optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af .
For any choice of admissible policy Af in the first stage , the state of the stream leaving this stage is given by Af .
This is the feed state of the subsequent Af stages which , according to the principle of optimality , must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to this state .
This will result in a value Af of the objective function , and when Af is chosen correctly this will give Af , the maximum of the objective function .
Thus Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af , and Af is related to Af by ( 5 ) .
The sequence of equations ( 6 ) can be solved for Af when Af is known , and clearly Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af .
In finding the optimal R-stage policy from that of Af stages , only the function Af is needed .
When Af has been found it may be transferred into the storage location of Af and the whole calculation repeated .
To extract the optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af , we enter section R of this table at the state Af and find immediately from the last column the maximum value of the objective function .
Since by the principle of optimality the remaining stages use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to Af , we may enter section Af of the table at this state Af and read off the optimal policy for stage Af and the resulting state Af .
Proceeding in this way up the table we extract the complete optimal policy and , if it is desired , we can check on Af by evaluating Af at the last stage .
It may be that the objective function depends not only on Af but also on Af , as when the cost of the operating policy is considered .
Here P represents the value of the stream in state P and Q the cost of operating the stage with conditions Q .
If Af denotes the net profit from stage R and Af , then the principle of optimality gives Af .
This sequence of equations may be started with the remark that with no process Af there is no profit , i.e. , Af .
In this case the stage R operating with conditions Af transforms the state of the stream from Af to Af , but only the probability distribution of Af is known .
This is specified by a distribution function Af such that the probability that Af lies in some region D of the stage space is Af .
For a single stage we may define Af where the maximization is by choice of Af .
Then Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af and the integration over the whole of stage space .
P denotes the state at any point T and Q the vector of operating variables there .
The restrained gyro-stabilized platform with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate equation of motion , neglecting transient effects , as follows : Af where U is a torque applied about the output axis of the controlling gyro .
Thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the **yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity Af if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis Aj .
The voltage Af is amplified by Af and applied to the gyro torquer with scale factor Af .
In brief , the human replaces amplifier Af in Figs. 7-1 and 7-2 .
For the case of a purely inertial autonavigator consisting of three restrained gyros , a coordinate system is used where the sensitive axis of the X accelerometer is parallel to the east-west direction at the base point , and the Y accelerometer sensitive axis is parallel to the north-south direction at the base point .
The platform is leveled and properly headed , so that the X-gyro input axis is parallel to the east-west direction and the Y-gyro input axis is parallel to the north-south direction .
When the platform is level , **ye is a rotation about the Z axis of the platform Af .
His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating .
He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
Teachers -- men who wore brown suits and had gray hair and pleasant smiles -- came to their table to talk shop and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel .
He said more loudly , `` I'm full , old Pop '' .
`` He's all right , Craig '' , Rachel said .
Mr. McKinley , for all his sprawling and his easy familiarity , was completely alert to his son , eyes always on the still face , jumping to anticipate Scotty's desires .
Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth .
Both watched Scotty constantly , Rachel without seeming to , Virginia openly , her eyes filled with concern .
His stethoscope was on the table by Scotty's bed and he picked it up and wagged it at Scotty .
`` Well , Mrs. Charles -- Sally -- has phoned too .
`` She didn't really say '' -- She glanced away at the floor , then swooped gracefully and picked up one of Scotty's slippers .
And Rachel's or Virginia's reply : `` better .
After a pause , during which he studied Scotty's face as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too , Mr. McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs .
And another time , without accusation : `` You never wore that scarf I bought you '' .
If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself .
There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night .
Warren and White each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the ROK's machine gun .
Others carried extra clips for the Browning Automatic Rifle , which was in the hands of a little Mexican named Martinez .
Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
His eyes now fixed on White's solid figure , Warren could hear behind him the tread of another .
Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre .
They visited the shipyards at Brest and Pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner .
`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , Pierre had laughed .
I'm used to all three , but I think the French have the healthiest attitude '' .
That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes .
The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : `` I speak English '' , the old man said , `` but I do not hear it very well '' .
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue .
Al's Little Cafe was small , dark , narrow , and filled with the mingled scent of beer , tobacco smoke , and Italian cooking .
Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke .
She was the widow of a writer who had died in an airplane crash , and Mickie had found her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury .
Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics .
`` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff doesn't .
Mr. Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian .
A New York kid , a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs , made fun of Trig's accent , and drew a knife .
Before the fight was over , the Harlem boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly .
The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested , ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao .
When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino .
The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' Give that to me , you black bastard .
`` He recommended both of them for the DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound .
So you see Mr. Christiansen knows what it's all about .
But not Jeff Lawrence .
When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow .
Beside him was Mrs. Dalloway .
He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself .
He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit .
At State College , he had no time to walk among the violets on the water's edge .
More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York .
Like Mrs. Dalloway , with her regrets about Peter Walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent .
If he had had a son , he would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' .
Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell .
The Vice President had called and asked if he could see the Secretary at his home .
Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear .
A half hour later the Vice President arrived .
He observed the Florentine vase in the hall , the Renoir painting in the library , as well as the long shelves of well-bound volumes ; ;
He said to the Secretary , `` I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre .
The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President's home , let me know .
The Vice President said with a slight bluster , `` There isn't anyone who loves the President more than I do .
At the same time , you have to face facts and realize that a man who's been in the Marine Corps all his life doesn't understand much about politics .
This is why I say we just can't go ahead and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses .
A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I don't have to tell you his name , and he told me , ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he's crucifying me .
I've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that's what they do .
He's telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament of Germany .
And another one comes to me and he says , ' Look here , there's a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the Navy .
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it '' ! !
But Sojourner was not easily excited or upset and said quite calmly : `` Let's go and see what it's like '' .
Annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham , near the Georgia border and on the Tallahoosa River , a small and dirty stream .
But it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime .
Then they went down to Black Bottom .
In the midst of this crowded region was the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church .
The Deacon Board , headed by a black man named Carlson , had practically taken over as the pastor grew old , and had its way with the support of the Amen corner .
And then the Amen corner took hold , re-enacting a form of group participation in worship that stemmed from years before the Greek chorus , spreading down through the African forest , overseas to the West Indies , and then here in Alabama .
He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here .
It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , as Wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative .
It was called Kent House .
Why should a white hotel be set down in the center of Black Bottom ? ?
The rest of Black Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep .
After looking about a bit , Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot .
He talked about it to the Presiding Elder .
The Presiding Elder looked him over rather carefully .
He emphasized to the Presiding Elder the plan of giving up the old church and moving across the river .
The Presiding Elder was sure that that would be impossible .
But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition .
The colored people are getting employment at Kent House and other places , and they are near their places of employment .
Now , if I were you I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years .
Then Wilson asked , `` What about this Kent House which you mention ? ?
The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I'm afraid I can't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
She said , `` My dear , do you know what Kent House is '' ? ?
`` No '' , said Wilson , `` I don't .
They hire a good deal of local labor , including two members of our Trustee Board .
`` Talk to Mrs. Catt '' , she said .
And after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed .
But this situation of Kent House was more subtle .
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold .
The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr. Verdi .
Secretary of State Seward was a sick man .
Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward's home , where Key had once been killed .
It was still Good Friday , after all .
Young Frederick Seward held out his hand .
Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward's head , over and over again .
In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts .
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now '' ? ?
If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia .
Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it .
Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it .
The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue .
The audience was fond of Harry Hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny .
`` Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap '' ! !
Said Trenchard , otherwise Hawk .
Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof .
The play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of The Octoroon .
In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` He has shot the President '' ! !
On the stage , Harry Hawk began to weep .
In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots , and one death might attract another .
The beehive voices , for no one could bear silence , drowned out the sound of Mrs. Lincoln's weeping .
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box .
In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water .
Somehow Dr. Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out into the dingy corridor .
As usual , Mrs. Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now .
There was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris's companion , Major Rathbone , with a knife .
He came by and repeated , `` Po' Chavis '' ! !
The clock you heard strike -- it's really the town clock -- was installed last April by Mrs. Shorter , on her birthday '' .
He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square .
Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God .
The Dutch Reformed Church , with two steeples and its own school was on Main Street ; ;
the Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street ; ;
the Catholic Saint Mary's Church , with an even taller steeple and a cross on top , stood on Ball Street .
The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; ;
Somewhere , beyond , where shadows lurked , must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached and the dreadful Lake of Fire .
So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock .
There was no church like Drew Church , no preacher like Papa , who was intimate with Him , and could consign sinners to hellfire .
To know God he must follow in Papa's footsteps .
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' ! !
His being and His will -- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa -- illumined every parish face , turned the choir into a band of angels , and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven .
`` We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge '' , Mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars '' .
When Papa went out to do God's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare .
Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back .
Sometimes they went south and rolled past the tollhouse -- `` Afternoon , Reverend '' ! !
In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush .
South of Laurel Grove Cemetery , and below the junction of the Neversink and the Delaware , was the Tri-State Rock , from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania , as well as New York , simply by spinning around on his heel .
On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man's chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation .
Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent swimming hole .
He was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the Monticello Branch .
Uncle and Aunt Howe were the witnesses '' .
It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew steeple stood guard with its peaked lance .
`` It's time you began to think on God , Stephen .
Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago .
Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you .
Open your heart to Him and pray , Stephen , pray ! !
For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire '' .
For he feared the Lake of Fire .
He strove to think of God and His eternal wrath ; ;
Not George , Townley , or Ted , certainly not Ludie .
Burt was at Hackettstown and Will at Albany Law School , where they surely could not hear it .
He would hear the Call and would run to tell Papa .
If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next .
When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants .
Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places .
He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed .
Ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July .
Ludie hopped rides on freight cars , and was chased by Mr. Yankton , the railroad guard .
He , too , cocked his cap at a jaunty angle , jingled marbles in his pocket , and swaggered down Main Street .
He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades .
He crossed the tracks to Delaware House , where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah .
`` P. J. '' -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities .
Rich people went to Delaware House , Opera House , American House or Fowler House .
He thought of Joe Harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister .
Jee-sus , We Fixed him ! !
One of his favorites : `` Guitar Boogie '' .
Lousy Reactionary bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months .
One day , Ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' .
Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards .
`` They'll get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I'll slice their balls right off .
When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy .
Sleepy-eyed , soft-spoken Johnson , Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad .
He was the guy what always goofed at Question Time .
Somebody , got to be somebody If I don't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
-- name William Foster's Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism .
Then he was asking himself the usual early morning questions : What the Hell am I doin here ? ?
Why don't Uncle Sam mind his own fucken business ? ?
Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore .
If I hafta do this to stay alive by God I'll do it .
Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau .
How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ? ?
And his efforts to get a performance for his Gallant Muses invariably failed .
But then one day , while on a week's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance .
That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was still stoutly replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it .
The fault was Rameau's and that of the whole culture of this Parisian age .
The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded .
But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited .
Duclos , the historian , pointed out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible .
The musicians of the Royal Opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound .
But he recalled that Rameau had once had a private performance of his opera Armide , behind closed doors , just for himself alone .
Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau : that the writer of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta .
`` Let me do the submitting to the Royal Academy '' , he suggested .
All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau .
Monsieur De Cury was incensed , of course .
But I said I would first have to get the author's permission .
Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
Seeing him in that condition , and about to enter the hall where the King , the Queen , the whole royal family and all the members of the highest aristocracy would be present , Grimm and the Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him .
`` I'm dressed as I always am '' , Rousseau said .
And Madame De Pompadour '' .
`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said .
As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I can't say ; ;
I wanted to wipe my flint , but I didn't dare to , the state my hands were in , just as I didn't dare to do anything about the priming .
It was only hours since I had last seen them , but they had changed and I had changed .
My Cousin Simmons carried a musket , but he had loaded it with bird shot , and as the officer came opposite him , he rose up behind the wall and fired .
and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
I would have stood there and died there if left to myself , but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there ; ;
and then I came to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that I outdistanced Cousin Simmons by far .
We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle .
Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; ;
It may appear that we were cruel and callous , but no one had time to spend sympathizing with poor Isaac -- except the Reverend .
I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn open by a British musket ball , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself .
Cousin Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column , but another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this section of road .
It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one .
Cousin Joshua Dover decided to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world .
I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that if he didn't see to me , he didn't know who would .
`` Good heavens , Adam '' , he said , `` I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place '' .
They tried to outface him , but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men , and it would have taken braver men than these were to outface him .
That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer .
In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St. Peter's one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame .
But the thought occurred that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him .
The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected .
`` I have told you before , and I tell you again '' , Monsieur Favre said rudely .
`` What Master Calvin says is true .
`` We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly living together .
A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace .
Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons .
Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church .
The Abbot of St. Eloi , Claude De Mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground .
For an instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte , the touch of his mother's hand , the lilt of Charles's voice in the square raftered rooms , his father's bass tones rumbling to the canons , and the sight of the beloved bishop .
Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures , why had He given them to him ? ?
Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St. Peter's .
John recognized Ablard Corne and called out a greeting .
There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians .
Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet .
An occasional traveler from Italy brought news of Peter Robert , who was now distributing his Bible among the Waldensian peasants .
Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin .
He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult .
But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church .
Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished .
Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded : `` Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope , Master Calvin , to curtail our liberty ? ?
Why , oh why , doesn't he stick to preaching the Gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the Church '' ? ?
And John's reply was always the same : `` Anything that affects souls is the concern of the Church ! !
Monsieur Favre's threat would become a reality , for he continued to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of `` that Frenchman '' .
He started down the steps to meet the near-blind preacher , who had been one of the early Gospelers in Paris .
Two Anabaptists , Caroli and Benoit , are to challenge you and William to a debate before the Council .
Those who refused to believe that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists .
Peter Caroli had come to Geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith .
But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death .
So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge .
Bern demands that the Lord's Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread .
Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics '' ! !
`` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence '' .
`` That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic '' ! !
The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger .
On the outskirts of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their fists .
This was the hut of Simms Purdew , the hero .
Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew , the only man in the world whom he hated , he had seen the heavy , slack , bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel , obscene banter , and had seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment , and suddenly he was not seeing the face of that vile creature .
He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles .
In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die .
He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple .
If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened .
If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told .
Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air .
It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew .
Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam .
They called her Mollie the Mutton , and laughed .
The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain .
Then the words fell into a pattern : `` Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain .
He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold .
He heard the words : `` Rock of Ages , cleft for me , Let me hide myself in Thee ! !
Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side flow ! !
He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria .
He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew .
He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled .
He thought of Simms Purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him .
He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory .
Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` God is tired of taking the blame .
He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together .
`` Gonna give Ole Buckra all his money '' ? ?
`` Know what Ole Buckra et tonight '' ? ?
`` Know what I had to fix fer Ole Him '' ? ?
Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer ( again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed ) .
Then Laura took her gently and shoved her off again , toward Fritzie : Amy did not laugh -- this was work , concentration , achievement .
`` Yes , I know , Fritzie .
It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October .
He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar .
Both had been up since 7:00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief .
The night before , they had telephoned the Andrus maid , Selena Masters , and she had arrived early , bursting her vigorous presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley and confounded Moll .
With a hard eye , she informed Moll : `` Don't sure 'nuff me , officer .
she was one of Eliot Sparling's neutralized minorities , adopting the rolling R's and constricted vowels of Los Angeles .
Not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron , ten years out of Iowa .
Selena Masters , Joe realized , was her own woman .
She was the only kind of Negro Laura Andrus would want around : independent , unservile , probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework -- and doubly efficient .
`` Didn't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , Andrus muttered .
Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day's shopping , Fritzie's commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar .
Once , Andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by Duane Bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : `` We a buncha national celebrities '' .
He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he didn't want them subjected to the reporters again .
He did not see Sparling , or DeGroot , or Ringel , or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed him twelve hours ago .
One of the reporters called to him : `` Anything new , Lieutenant '' ? ?
Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace .
They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway .
Studying them , McFeeley could not help make comparison with the Andrus couple .
By comparison , Fritzie and Laura Andrus were quivering fledglings .
There remained a family named Kahler , owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus home .
`` Funny thing '' , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , `` when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman '' .
Kahler continued : `` I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he's sore , so I expected him to come barging in '' .
Mr. Kahler went on to explain how Hausman's fox terrier had been `` making '' in his flower beds .
`` Le petit dejeuner '' , Harold said , in an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan , his high-school French teacher .
Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first .
`` Excuse me '' , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress .
Then came their bathroom , and then a bedroom that , judging by the photographs on the walls , must belong to Mme Cestre .
Matching photographs in oval frames of Mme Bonenfant and an elderly man who must be Alix's grandfather .
The curtains were of the same material , and there were some big oil paintings -- portraits in the style of Lancret and Boucher .
The window looked out on the Place Redoute -- it was the only window of the apartment that did .
Da-da-da-dum Music could not be Eugene's passion .
`` Call the Vouillemont , I guess '' .
They went to the Flea Market , expecting to find the treasures of Europe , and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in Tours .
They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed .
When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands' apartment in the East Eighties .
`` There's a big boat anchored near the Place De La Concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- didn't you notice it ? ?
For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ? ?
Listed as present at the Descent were Mary , Mary's sister , Mary Magdalene , John , Joseph of Arimathea , Nicodemus .
Search as he might , he could find no place where the Bible spoke of a moment when Mary could have been alone with Jesus .
Mostly the scene was crowded with mourners , such as the dramatic Dell'Arca Lamentation in Bologna , where the grief-stricken spectators had usurped Mary's last poignant moment .
Perhaps after the soldiers had laid him on the ground , while Joseph of Arimathea was at Pontius Pilate's asking for Christ's body , Nicodemus was gathering his mixture of myrrh and aloes , and the others had gone home to mourn .
Since his Christ was to be life size , how was Mary to hold him on her lap without the relationship seeming ungainly ? ?
He improvised as he went along , completing a life-size clay figure , then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper , wet the lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento brought from the bank of the Tiber , to the consistency of thick mud .
No fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , to cover the Madonna's slender legs and feet so that they would give substantive support to Christ's body , to intensify her inner turmoil .
He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked .
The Jewish section was in Trastevere , near the Tiber at the church of San Francesco a Ripa .
The colony had been small until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 drove many Jews into Rome .
Here , for the most part , they were well treated , as a `` reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity '' ; ;
He was told to ask for Rabbi Melzi at the synagogue on Saturday afternoon .
When Michelangelo explained why he had come , Rabbi Melzi replied gravely :
`` But , Rabbi Melzi , you don't object to others creating works of art '' ? ?
`` I am carving a Pieta from white Carrara marble .
I wish to make Jesus an authentic Jew .
The rabbi said thoughtfully , `` I would not want my people to get in trouble with the Church '' .
`` I am working for the Cardinal of San Dionigi .
Michelangelo hurried to Sangallo's solitary bachelor room with his sketches , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated Madonna .
He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes .
But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends .
Jacopo Galli introduced him into several Roman homes .
Since the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men , he had had no experience in the study of female anatomy ; ;
and a Jesus who , though lean , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito .
The arrangement with Argiento was working well , except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice .
Argiento had been trained so rigorously by the Jesuits that Michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; ;
The one thing he missed from his farm in the Po Valley was the animals ; ;
At dawn Argiento went to Jacopo Galli .
Galli arrived with his family surgeon , Maestro Lippi .
He told Argiento to take a bird out of the cage , cut a large vein under its wing , let the blood gush into Michelangelo's injured eye .
When Juanita awoke , Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no ! !
They put Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian minister .
He sat beside Kate's bed with the others throughout the morning , talking , talking of God's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
When he told her God had called the child to Him , she rejected his words rebelliously .
Few of the neighbors came , but Mrs. Tussle came , called by tragedy .
Jonathan's letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child's death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself .
In blind panic of grief she accepted Jonathan's dictum , and believed in her desperation that she had been cursed by God .
Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried .
She had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs in the nurse's room off the empty nursery , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of the baby's death .
Juanita drooped about the place , wearing a haunted , brooding look , which Kate attributed to the baby's death , until the day a letter came for her addressed to `` Miss Juanita Fitzroy '' , bearing a Grafton postmark .
Seeing the slanting hand , Kate knew uneasily that it was from the Yankee colonel .
The Federal forces had taken Parkersburg and Grafton from the Rebels and were moving to take all the mountains .
Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp .
He had been at lessons in the schoolhouse since they returned from Harpers Ferry .
He claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play cards and drink with his cronies , but Kate had not smelled brandy on him since Mrs. Lattimer's funeral .
`` You're gonna get caught '' , she heard Joel say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning .
`` Not this old fox '' , chuckled Uncle Randolph .
`` You're back there riding with the guerrillas , the Moccasin Rangers '' .
`` Hush '' , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I'll give you another black eye '' .
He patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel at the crossroads some days back .
Kate had no idea what they were talking of , although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn .
Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
What he was about became clear to her with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by General McClellan , threatening reprisals against Rebel guerrillas .
She had taken him out of the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer , after she saw Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake loose in the schoolroom .
Kate had walked past the school on her morning chores and had seen the whole incident , had seen Joel's burning humiliation before Miss Snow's cold , bespectacled wrath .
He helped Kate and Juanita enlarge the flower garden in the side yard , where they sometimes sat in the still evenings watching the last fat bees working against the summer's purple dusk .
No one went much to the crossroads now except Uncle Randolph .
Jonathan wrote grimly of the destruction of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it ; ;
of their first engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack's First Brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the B & O Railroad .
The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors .
Dangling his gaudy trinkets before them , he told of the Rebel losses in the mountains , at Cheat and Rich mountains both , and the Federal march on Beverly .
After he had gone , Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath '' ? ?
Her mother wrote Kate of her grief at the death of Kate's baby and at Jonathan's decision to go with the South `` And , dear Kate '' , she wrote , `` poor Dr. Breckenridge's son Robert is now organizing a militia company to go South , to his good father's sorrow .
Maj. Anderson of Fort Sumter is home and recruiting volunteers for the U.S. Army .
In spite of the fact that the state legislature voted us neutral , John Hunt Morgan is openly flying the Confederate flag over his woolen factory '' ! !
Accounts were garbled at the telegraph office when they sent old George down to Parkersburg for the news .
`` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight '' , the old man told them .
Kate and Mrs. Tussle waited for letters anxiously .
When Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out , she saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful .
They all prayed now that the North would realize that peace must come , for Virginia had defended her land victoriously .
The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon's rest when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window .
As Kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
`` What brings you here again , Colonel Marsh '' ? ?
`` I stopped to say goodbye , Mrs. Lattimer , and to tell you how sorry I was to hear about your baby .
`` It was a terrible loss to me '' , said Kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton .
`` As you know , General McClellan has been occupying Beverly .
He has notified me that he has orders to go to Washington to take over the Army of the Potomac .
Would you permit Juanita to walk about the grounds with me for a short spell , Mrs. Lattimer '' ? ?
It would be better for Joel and Uncle Randolph and Mrs. Tussle not to see them .
When Marsh called to his aide and the pair rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue , Juanita was shaken and trying not to cry .
I have held your papers of manumission since I married Mr. Lattimer '' .
Or was it her own first ball as mistress of this big house , a Van Rensselaer bride from way upstate near Albany , from Rensselaerwyck .
Now , driving the horse and sulky borrowed from Mynheer Schuyler , he felt as if every bone was topped by burning oil and that every muscle was ready to dissolve into jelly and leave his big body helpless and unable to move .
The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories .
He would cross to Manhattan , to Harlem Heights , before morning .
There a certain farmhouse was a station for the Sons of Liberty .
Mynheer , Sir Francis , the valley society , the very smell of the river on his right purling along to the bay past fish weirs and rocks , and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road .
New York lay bleaching in the summer sun , and the morning fish hawk , flying in the heated air , saw below him the long triangular wedge of Manhattan Island .
It was thickly settled by fifteen thousand citizens and laid out into pig-infested streets , mostly around the Battery , going bravely north to Wall Street , but giving up and becoming fields and farms in the region of Harlem Heights .
From there it looked across at Westchester County and the Hudson River where the manor houses , estates , and big farms of the original ( non-Indian ) landowners began .
On the east side of the island of Manhattan the indifferent hawk knew the East River that connected New York Bay with Long Island Sound .
On the western tip of Long Island protruded Brooklyn Heights .
On the shores north and south , the fishers and mooncursers -- smugglers -- lived along the churning Great South Bay and the narrow barrier of sand , Fire Island .
The larger ships were near Paulus Hook , already being called , by a few , Jersey City .
These were the ships of His Majesty's Navy , herding the hulks of the East Indies merchants and the yachts and ketches of the loyalists .
The news of battle on Breed's Hill had already seeped through , and New York itself was now left in the hands of the local Provincial Congress .
The captain's gig of H.M.S. Mercury was being rowed to H.M.S. Neptune .
Below in the open bay facing Manhattan was Staten Island , gritty with clam shells and mud flats behind which nested farms , cattle barns , and berry thickets .
Along Wappinger Creek in Dutchess County , past the white church at Fishkill , past Verplanck's Point on the east bank of the Hudson , to the white salt-crusted roads of the Long Island Rockaways there was a watching and an activity of preparing for something explosive to happen .
The British ships rolled at anchor , sent out picket boats and waited for orders from London .
David Cortlandt , having slept away a day and a night , came awake in a plank farmhouse on the Harlem River near Spuyten Duyvil .
He looked out through windowpanes turned a faint violet by sun and weather , looked out at King's Bridge toward Westchester .
The wraith-like events of the last few days flooded David's mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from Boston .
From the saddlebags , hung on a Hitchcock chair , David took out a good English razor , a present from John Hunter .
Here he was , suddenly caught up in the delirium of a war , in the spite and calumny of Whigs and Tories .
Yet some , like Morris Manderscheid , would bankrupt themselves for the new ideas .
No doubt John Hancock would do well now ; ;
He saw with John Hunter now that the perfectability of man was a dream .
In the meadow below , militia officers shouted at their men and on King's Bridge two boys sat fishing .
And all this too shall pass away : it came to him out of some dim corner of memory from a church service when he was a boy -- yes , in a white church with a thin spur steeple in the patriarchal Hudson Valley , where a feeling of plenitude was normal in those English-Dutch manors with their well-fed squires .
Tolek Alterman had returned from the colonies in Palestine and , before the national leadership , exalted the miracles of drying up swamps and irrigating the desert .
The land of the Lublin Uplands was rich , but no one seemed to care .
He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists .
When Alexander Brandel rose to speak , the hall became silent .
We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over Zion '' .
This was how Alexander Brandel expressed pure Zionism .
Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole .
Warsaw is my city , not Tel Aviv '' .
And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief .
He saw the smug eyes of the Home Army chief , Roman , and all the Romans and the faces of the peasants who held only hatred for him .
Only Palestine , and I will never live to see Palestine because I did not believe .
By late afternoon the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin , which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war to the Russian front .
Of all the places in Poland , Andrei hated Lublin the most .
Few of the native Jews who had lived in Lublin were still in the ghetto .
Early in 1939 , Odilo Globocnik , the Gauleiter of Vienna , established SS headquarters for all of Poland .
The Bathyrans ran a check on Globocnik and had only to conclude that he was in a tug of war with Hans Frank and the civilian administrators .
As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk , Lublin's fountainhead spouted .
Sixty thousand Jewish prisoners of war disappeared into Lublin's web .
Plans went in and out of Lublin , indicating German confusion .
A tale of a massive reservation in the Uplands to hold several million Jews A tale of a plan to ship all Jews to the island of Madagascar Stories of the depravity of the guards at Globocnik's camps struck a chord of terror at the mere mention of their names .
Lipowa 7 , Sobibor , Chelmno , Poltawa , Belzec , Krzywy-Rog , Budzyn , Krasnik .
The Death's-Head Corps took in Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries , and the Einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs .
In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard began in Lublin .
The ghetto , a miniature of Warsaw's , was emptied into the camp in the Majdan-Tartarski suburb called Majdanek .
As the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland .
In and in and in they poured through the gates of Majdanek , but they never left , and Majdanek was not growing any larger .
Was Operation Reinhard the same pattern for the daily trains now leaving the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw ? ?
Was there another Majdanek in the Warsaw area , as they suspected ? ?
Andrei stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary of civil buildings .
Krakow Boulevard was filled with black Nazi uniforms and the dirty brownish ones of their Auxiliaries .
Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the mustached , homely face of Sergeant Styka .
To him , Andrei Androfski had always been the living symbol of a Polish officer .
`` Remember to call me Jan '' , Andrei said .
`` For a time I thought of trying to reach the Free Polish Forces , but one thing led to another .
Many times I tried to reach you , but I never knew how .
`` There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek .
I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London '' .
`` Captain Jan must you go inside Majdanek ? ?
Until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews .
But my captain might have been a Jew , but he wasn't a Jew .
What I mean is , he was a Pole and the greatest soldier in the Ulanys .
You never knew about it , but by God , we taught them respect for Captain Androfski '' .
`` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years .
But now I think I hate it very much '' .
Grabski's shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center .
`` My cousin works at the Labor Bureau .
`` Orders from the Home Army '' .
`` You get the rest when I'm safely out of Majdanek '' .
I'd have been more impressed if I hadn't remembered that she'd played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course .
I'd forgotten all about Thelma and the Kentucky Derby and how it was Thelma's fifty dollars I was spending .
It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
Eileen got to dancing , just a little tiny dancing step to a hummed tune that you could hardly notice , and trying to pick up strange men , but each time I was ready to say to hell with it and walk out she'd pull herself together and talk so understandingly in that sweet husky voice about the good times and the happiness we'd had together and there I was back on the hook .
I did have the decency to call up Thelma and tell her I'd met old friends and would be home late .
`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came back from the phone booth .
It was a walk up on Hudson Street .
Never in my life have I felt so remorseful about anything I've done as I did about spending that night with my own wife .
`` Joseph Maria Ballestre meet Francis Xavier Bowman .
First thing I knew he was in the kitchenette cooking up the breakfast and I was handing Eileen her coffeecup and she was lying there handsome as a queen among her courtiers .
I wrote her that I'd met up with Eileen and that old bonds had proved too strong and asked her to send my clothes down by express .
Of course I had to give her Eileen's address , but she never came near us .
Afterwards I learned that Eileen had called Thelma on the telephone and made a big scene about Thelma trying to take her husband away .
And there I was shacked up with Eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street .
I felt it and it ate on me all the time , but I didn't know how right I was till later .
What I did know was that Precious was always around .
You wouldn't have me throw the poor boy out on the street '' , Eileen said when I needled her about it .
Still I didn't think she was twotiming me with Precious right then .
To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night .
When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess .
`` Some day '' , I told Eileen , `` that guy will kill us both '' .
The way Eileen and I were hitting it up , we needed ten or fifteen dollars an evening .
I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from my respectable uptown life , but when that was gone I didn't have a cent .
I don't know what we would have done if Pat O'Dwyer hadn't come to town .
Now Pat may have been a lecher and a plugugly , but he was a good churchgoing Catholic and he loved his little sister .
It had gone big with the Hollywood girls when he told them his sister was an editor of Art And Apparel .
`` But brother I can't take a job right now '' , she said with her eyes on her ice cream , `` I'm going to have a baby , Francis Xavier's baby , my own husband's baby '' .
He'd come East for the christening , by God he would .
When we separated that evening Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill into Eileen's hand to help towards a layette .
Before he left town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job .
A friend of Pat's named Frank Sposato had just muscled into the Portwatchers' Union .
It was responsible and sometimes dangerous work because the thieving is awful in the port of New York .
All of the jobs in the mission might be equal in the eyes of the Lord , but they were certainly not equal in the eyes of the Lord's servants .
He wanted desperately to see Kayabashi defeated , the Communists in the village rooted out , the mission standing triumphant , for in the triumph of the Lord he himself would be triumphant , too .
His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse .
In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning .
It was a ridiculous situation and Rector knew it , for Hino , frankly partisan , openly gregarious , would make a poor espionage agent .
In all of his experience in the mission field Rector had never seen a convert quite like Hino .
From the moment that Hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job , any job -- his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise hand -- he had been ready to become a Christian .
Without exception Hino's brothers turned to either one or both of their father's occupations , but Hino showed a talent for neither and instead spent most of his time on the beach where he repaired nets and proved immensely popular as a storyteller .
He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian .
When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector's office rarely rang unless it was important .
The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show them the mission .
`` Unless the oyabun has been working on it '' , he said , then checked himself and added : `` You can tell Kayabashi-san that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for his party to use '' .
No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived .
When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
`` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , Rector said , He explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission .
As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him .
`` When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys .
At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi's party .
His lordship was concerned in the management of Drury Lane but , if there were no opportunities there , would he read and criticize her novel ? ?
She sang him Scott's charming ballad `` Rosabelle '' , which was the vogue of the moment .
And so they went , he choosing of all places an inn near Medmenham Abbey , scene a generation ago of the obscene orgies of the Hellfire Club .
He regaled Claire with an account of the mock mass performed by the cassocked bloods , which he had had at firsthand from old Bud Dodington , one of the leaders of the so-called `` Order '' .
Alas , all that belonged to the age of `` Devil Dashwood '' and `` Wicked Wilkes '' , abbot and beadsman of the Order ! !
A scant half mile away Shelley and Mary were doubtless sitting on their diminutive terrace , the air about them scented with stock , and listening to the nightingale who had nested in the big lime tree at the foot of the garden .
She was the pursuer as clearly as was Venus in Shakespeare's poem .
Claire felt suddenly small and cheap , heroine of a trivial episode in the voluminous history of Don Juan .
When Napoleon's ship had borne him to Elba , French wines had started to cross the Channel , the first shipments in a dozen war-ridden years , but the supplies had not yet reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula still ruled .
`` The great Greek tragedies are concerned with man against Fate , not man against man for the prize of a woman's body .
`` Mars and Venus , Bacchus and Ariadne , Jupiter and Io , Byron and the nymph of the owl's nest .
That would be Minerva , I suppose .
When Claire returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become Byron's mistress .
By odd coincidence , on the evening of her return Shelley chose to read Parisina , which was the latest of the titled poet's successes .
`` If he would only leave the East '' , said Mary .
`` The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte '' , said Claire , with slightly overdone carelessness .
`` Fanny and Mrs. Godwin will probably be glad to hear that Mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement , and that her child is well '' .
At the same time another child -- this one of Shelley's brain -- was given to the world : Alastor , a poem of pervading beauty in which the reader may gaze into the still depths of a fine mind's musings .
Shelley sent a copy to Southey , a former friend , and another to Godwin .
`` And in the future , since I write for a public of one , I can save the poor publishers from wasting their money '' .
What about that dear , clever Mr. Thynne ? ?
`` Poor Mr. Thynne , he always has to be trotted out for my encouragement '' .
`` There are other Mr. Thynnes .
The same month that Alastor was published , Murray sold twenty thousand copies of The Siege Of Corinth , a slovenly bit of Byronism that even Shelley's generosity rebelled at .
Byron , since the separation from his wife had been living in a smallish house in Piccadilly Terrace .
He refused to bring Claire to it even as an occasional visitor , claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes .
-- Fetch me the copies of everything B and C companies have requisitioned in the last six months .
Let him chafe with impatience to see Charles , rip open the note with trembling hands and read the formal report in Hillman's beautiful , schoolmaster's hand .
I would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , `` O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' ? ?
As I say , I wouldn't want to begin a day like this , but I often wonder what the dead would have done .
It bulks under a veil of thin , new grass , like some embarrassing fact of physicalness , and I think Mrs. Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning .
Offer her a cup of tea and she would say , `` Why , these cups look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year '' .
Hand her a chair and she would say , `` Why , it's a nice imitation of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy '' .
She usually wore weeds , and a stranger watching her board a train might have guessed that Mr. Pastern was dead , but Mr. Pastern was far from dead .
He was marching up and down the locker room of the Grassy Brae Golf Club shouting , `` Bomb Cuba ! !
He was brigadier of the club's locker-room light infantry , and at one time or another declared war on Russia , Czechoslovakia , Yugoslavia , and China .
Leaving her house one late afternoon , Mrs. Pastern stopped to admire the October light .
Mrs. Ten Eyke did mental health .
Mrs. Trempler was tuberculosis , Mrs. Surcliffe was Mothers' March of Dimes , Mrs. Craven was cancer , and Mrs. Gilkson did the kidney .
Mrs. Hewlitt led the birthcontrol league , Mrs. Ryerson was arthritis , and way in the distance could be seen the slate roof of Ethel Littleton's house , a roof that signified gout .
She stopped at the Surcliffes' after dusk , and had a Scotch-and-soda .
`` I did everybody on my list but the Blevins and the Flannagans .
`` But I don't know the Flannagans '' , Charlie Pastern said .
`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I will write you out a check if I can find my checkbook .
Where was Mr. Flannagan , he wondered .
`` What train does Mr. Flannagan come out on '' ? ?
She and her husband had formerly lived in New York , where she had many friends , but Mr. Flannagan thought the country would be safer in case of war .
His money was tied up in a Nassau hotel , an Ohio pottery works , and a detergent for window-washing , and luck had been running against him .
During the summer he had tried to repair some of his losses at the track , and the bare trees reminded him that his pari-mutuel tickets would still be lying , like leaves , in the gutters near Belmont and Saratoga .
Maple and ash , beech and elm , one hundred to win on Three in the fourth , fifty to win on Six in the third , one hundred to win on Two in the eighth .
Then , getting back into bed , he thought unashamedly of Mrs. Flannagan , planning where they would next meet and what they would do .
It was not as though she noted clearly that her nephews had not been to see her for ten years , not since their last journey eastward to witness their Uncle Izaak being lowered into the rocky soil ; ;
There she extracted two limp vellum sheets and wrote off the letters , one to Abel , one to Mark .
To Abel : `` I am afraid there is not much to amuse small children here .
To Mark : `` Please give my regards to Myra '' .
`` That will be so nice for you , Mrs. Packard '' , she said .
What had once been a widespread family -- at one time , she knew , there were enough Packards to populate an entire county -- had now narrowed down to the two boys , Abel and Mark .
The brothers drove down together in Mark's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel .
In the stiff neutral lines of the telephone poles he saw the no-nonsense pen strokes of Aunt Jessica's letter .
He and Mark were the last of the family , and there lay the Cape Ann property which had seemed to have no end , stretching from horizon to horizon , in those golden days of summer .
`` She didn't mention bringing Myra '' , Mark said , maneuvering the car into the next lane .
He gave Abel a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt .
`` The Starbird , '' Abel said .
There was the day Uncle Izaak had , in an unexpected grandiose gesture , handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps , on condition that he never fail to let his brother accompany him whenever younger the boy wished .
I decided I hated the Pedersen kid too , dying in our kitchen while I was away where I couldn't watch , dying just to entertain Hans and making me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall , Pa lumped under the covers at the end like dung covered with snow , snoring and whistling .
The covers slid down his skinny neck so I saw his head , fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed , but his face was turned to the wall -- there was the pale shadow of his nose on the plaster -- and I thought , Well you don't look much like a pig-drunk bully now .
I knew better but I was thinking of the Pedersen kid mother-naked in all that dough .
When his arm came up I ducked away but it caught me on the side of the neck , watering my eyes , and I backed off to cough .
`` A fat hell on Big Hans .
You know I don't want to see Pedersen .
`` A fat hell on Big Hans .
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' .
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' .
`` Listen to me , Jorge , I've had enough to your sassing .
I'd wound Big Hans up tight .
It should have been nearly as easy for her to remember that as it was for Big Hans to remember going after the axe while he was still spattered with Pa's yellow sick insides .
`` No you won't '' , Big Hans said .
`` Yes , Hans , if they're needed '' , Ma said .
She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
He was awful angry because he'd thought Ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her I know him I know him we felt the same sometimes while Ma wasn't thinking about that at all , not anything like that .
Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable ; ;
She'd found one and she hadn't said a word while Big Hans and I had hunted and hunted as we always did all winter , every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had looked in the privy and found the first one .
I didn't want to touch him and I hoped Ma would do it but she kept looking at the kid's clothes piled on the floor and the pool of water by them and didn't make any move to .
He could no longer build anything , whether a private residence in his Pennsylvania county or a church in Brazil , without it being obvious that he had done it , and while here and there he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique , they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time , a quality of authentic uniqueness about them , which , once established by an artist as his private vision , is no longer disputable as to its other values .
Stowey Rummel was internationally famous , a crafter of a genuine Americana in foreign eyes , an original designer whose inventive childishness with steel and concrete was made even more believably sincere by his personality .
he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday's Herald Tribune and yesterday's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
Bicycle gear-sets he had once used as the basis of the design for the Camden Cycly Company plant hung on a rope in one corner , and over his desk , next to several old and dusty hats , was a clean pair of roller skates which he occasionally used up and down in front of his house .
He left his home the day after New Year's wearing a mackinaw and sheepskin mittens and without a hat .
He would wear this same costume in Florida , despite his wife Cleota's reminders over the past five days that he must take some cool clothes with him .
He looked at her out of himself , she thought , as he did only for an instant at a time , the look which always surprised her even now when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once .
Every few minutes she would awaken for a moment to review things : Stowey , yes , was on his way south , and the two boys were away in school , and nothing was burning on the stove , and Lucretia was coming for dinner and bringing three guests of hers .
She stood up , smoothing her hair down , straightening her clothes , feeling a thankfulness for the enveloping darkness outside , and , above everything else , for the absence of the need to answer , to respond , to be aware even of Stowey coming in or going out , and yet , now that she was beginning to cook , she glimpsed a future without him , a future alone like this , and the pain made her head writhe , and in a moment she found it hard to wait for Lucretia to come with her guests .
There was no room for company in the tiny Weaning House ( where the Albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) .
So when the Big House filled up and ran over , the sisters-in-law found beds for everyone in their own homes .
And there was still not anything that Linda Kay could do .
So Linda Kay gave up asking , and accepted her reprieve .
She had made curtains for all the windows of her little house , and she had kept it spotless and neat , shabby as it was , and cooked good meals for Bobby Joe .
Four or five of the cousins from East Texas were about his age , so naturally they ran around together .
Thus a new pattern of days began to develop , for Granny Albright did not die .
When Linda Kay had put up her breakfast dishes and mopped her linoleum rugs , she would go to the Big House .
Bobby Joe and the boys would come by , say `` How's Granny '' ? ?
They were an old fat couple ( as Linda Kay described them to herself ) , a thick middle-aged man , and a girl about ten or twelve .
`` We were on our vacation in Canada '' , Howard explained , in a muffled voice that must have been used to booming , `` and the news didn't catch up with us till we were nearly home .
There was the suggestion of ice water , and -- in spite of the protest `` We're not really thirsty '' -- Linda Kay , to escape the stuffy air and the smothering soft voices , hurried to the kitchen .
`` Oh that's Linda Kay '' , Mama Albright said fondly .
`` She married our baby boy , Bobby Joe , this summer '' .
`` Let's see '' , Cousin Ada said .
This joke was not funny to Linda Kay , and she blushed , as she always did ; ;
She asked Bobby Joe that night .
`` Say , did you know they're fixing to have a two-day antelope season on the Double J '' ? ?
Bobby Joe took a gun from behind the door , and with a quick `` Bye now '' was gone for the day .
Almost immediately Howard and his daughter Debora drove up in the Cadillac .
There was really no reason to refuse , and Linda Kay had never ridden in a Cadillac .
Finally he said , `` Tell me about yourself '' , and Linda Kay told him , because she thought herself that she had had an interesting life .
She was such a well-rounded teenager , having been a twirler , Future Farmers sweetheart , and secretary of Future Homemakers .
In her sophomore year she had started going steady with Bobby Joe , who was a football player , Future Homemakers sweetheart , and president of Future Farmers .
But there was no need for Linda Kay to go on , since all she wanted in life was to make a home for Bobby Joe and ( blushing ) raise his children .
Then he told Linda Kay about himself .
Of course he couldn't say much , really , because of Debora , but Linda Kay could imagine what kind of woman his wife had been and what a raw deal he had got .
She was going to tell Bobby Joe about how mistaken she had been , but he brought one of the cousins home for supper , and all they did was talk about antelope .
Bobby Joe was trying to get Linda Kay to say she would cook one if he brought it home .
Linda Kay told him he couldn't do anything like that with his Grandma dying , and he said well they had to eat , didn't they , they weren't all dying .
Every night they all went to Mama and Papa Albright's , and sat on the open front porch , where they could get the breeze .
Bobby Joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and Uncle Bill Farnworth ( from Mama Albright's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then .
Howard , who had been sitting against the wall , said he needed more fresh air , and took the spot on the edge of the porch where Bobby Joe had been sitting .
`` You'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , Howard '' , Ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed .
Bobby Joe had been sitting close to her , touching her actually , and holding her hand from time to time , but it seemed at once that Howard sat much closer .
He had sold oil stock to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in person ; ;
That first entry there is the Vermont Flumenophobe , the earliest and one of the most successful of my eighty-three varieties -- great big scapulars and hardly any primaries at all .
The ledger was full of most precise information : date of laying , length of incubation period , number of chick reaching the first week , second week , fifth week , weight of hen , size of rooster's wattles and so on , all scrawled out in a hand that looked more Chinese than English , the most jagged and sprawling Alex had ever seen .
Alex's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go off to the Rue Ecole De Medecine to hear more speeches with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all .
The doctor was wearing a long New England greatcoat , hardly necessary in the June weather but a garment which proved well adapted to the sequestration of hens .
Ejaculated the surprised woman , looking at Alex for an explanation but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work .
It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird .
`` Chickens have short memories '' , the doctor remarked , `` that's why they are better company than most people I know '' , and he went on to break some important news to Alex .
`` Well '' , he began , `` It seems like some people in Paris want to hear more from me than those fellers over at the conference house do .
They've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
Seems like she's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then didn't know what to do , and the people at the zoo haven't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look .
`` Why , Winston '' , she'd cry , `` I just now saw you eating it out of the jar '' ! !
The enormous plates which had held Mr. Jack's four fried eggs and five strips of bacon were still stacked in the sink .
`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made .
Winston stacked Miss Ada's thin pink dishes in the sink .
`` To Be Left Behind '' was printed at the top in Miss Ada ; ;
Winston took out a pencil , admired the point , and wrote slowly and heavily , `` Clothes Stand '' .
`` I told you what Miss Ada's doctor said '' .
`` I don't mean Miss Ada ! !
`` How many times have I told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! !
It was Mr. Jack , bellowing out in the hall .
`` I've been bursting my lungs for you '' , Mr. Jack complained .
He gave Mr. Jack a real going-over ; ;
Then he stood back to look at Mr. Jack , who was pulling on his pigskin gloves .
The velvet smoking jackets , pearl-gray , wine , and blue , which Miss Ada had bought him hung brushed and unworn in the closet .
`` Good-by , Winston '' , Mr. Jack said , giving a final set to his hat .
After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window .
And the dogwood in early May , for Miss Ada's alfresco party ; ;
Now the yard looked wet and bald , the trees bare under their buds , but in a while Miss Ada's flowers would bloom like a marching parade .
In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand .
Frowning , Miss Ada studied the list .
When they came to Mr. Jack's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he won't take my clotheshorse '' .
`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , Miss Ada said .
He had only agreed with Miss Ada about getting the valet , but he had actually suggested the photograph to Mr. Jack .
`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he had said wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes .
Through the door , he had seen Mr. Jack walking around , waiting for Miss Ada .
Mr. Jack had said , `` You look about fifteen years old '' .
`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , Mr. Jack had started .
`` I'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said .
Then Miss Ada had stood up , rustling and rustling , and gone upstairs .
During the rest of the summer my scholarly mania for making plaster casts and spatter prints of Catskill flowers and leaves was all but surpassed by the constantly renewed impressions of Jessica that my mind served up to me for contemplation and delight .
In final separation from them , in the railroad terminal across the river from New York , I would nearly cry .
But that year was different , for just as the city , in the form of my street clothes , had intruded upon my mountain nights , so an essential part of the summer gave promise of continuing into the fall : Jessica and I , about to be separated not by a mere footbridge or messhall kitchen but by the immense obstacle of residing in cruelly distant boroughs , had agreed to correspond .
In my letters I took on a personality that differed from the self I knew in real life .
Then epistolatory me was a foreign correspondent dispatching exciting cables and communiques , full of dash and wit and glamor , quoting from the books I read , imitating the grand styles of the authors recommended by a teacher in whose special , after-school class I was enrolled .
The letters took their source from a stream of my imagination in which I was transformed into a young man not unlike my bunkmate Eliot Sands -- he of the porch steps anecdotes -- who smoked cigarettes , performed the tango , wore fifty dollar suits , and sneaked off into the dark with girls to do unimaginable things with them .
Like Eliot , in my fantasies , I had a proud bearing and , with a skill that was vaguely continental , I would lead Jessica through an evening of dancing and handsome descriptions of my newest exploits , would guide her gently to the night's climax which , in my dreams , was always represented by our almost suffocating one another to death with deep , moist kisses burning with love .
The night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in September -- I had a vision of myself returned in ragged uniform from The Front , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and Jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life .
Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I was shy with Jessie and acted as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance .
She was wearing her dark hair in two , thick braids to attain an `` American Girl '' effect she thought was appropriate to Halloween .
It made her look sweet and schoolgirlish , I was excited to be with her , but I did not know how to express it .
It was late , we were playing kissing games , and Jessica and I were called on to kiss in front of the others .
It was at that party that , finally overcoming my timidity , inspired by tales only half-understood and overheard among older boys , I asked Jessie to spend New Year's Eve with me .
Lovingly , she accepted , and so great was my emotion that all I could think of saying was , `` You're amazing , you know '' ? ?
But though I boasted and gave off a dapper front , I was beneath it all frightened .
It would be the first time I had ever been completely alone with a girl I loved .
I had no idea of what subjects one discussed when alone with a girl , or how one behaved : Should I hold her hand while walking or only when crossing the street ? ?
Should I accompany her to the door of her home , or should I ask to be invited in ? ?
When in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year's Eve , I knew for a moment an immense relief ; ;
In December I wrote her with authority that we would meet on the steps of the Hotel Astor , a rendezvous spot that I had learned was the most sophisticated .
We would attend a film and , later on , I stated , we might go to the Mayflower Coffee Shop or Child's or Toffenetti's for waffles .
My camp-made leather wallet , bulky with twisted , raised stitches around the edges , I stuffed with money I had been saving .
Hatless , in an overcoat of rough blue wool , I was given a proud farewell by my mother and father , and I set out into the strangely still streets of Brooklyn .
I felt superior to the neighborhood friends I was leaving behind , felt older than my years , and was full of compliments for myself as I headed into the subway that was carrying its packs of passengers out of that dull borough and into the unstable , tantalizing excitement of Manhattan .
Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers ( all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members ) , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
An old gentlemen next to me held a Boy Scout bugle to his lips and blasted away at every fourth step and during the interim shouted out , `` V for Victory '' ! !
Was I supposed to buy a funny hat and a rattle for Jessica ? ?
I looked for Jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , as the time passed and I waited , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : How was I planning to greet Jessica ? ?
But when I saw that it was already ten past seven , I began to wonder if something had gone wrong .
At 7:25 two hotel doormen came thumping down the steps , carrying a saw-horse to be set up as a barricade in front of the haberdashery store window next to the entranceway , and as I watched them in their gaudy red coats that nearly scraped the ground , their golden , fringed epaulets and spic , red-visored caps , I suddenly saw just over their shoulders Jessica gracefully making her way through the crowd .
There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago's grim , dirty West Side .
It seemed incredible , as I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill .
I suddenly thought of Mary Jane Brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses .
We had become good friends during my stay at Cook County Hospital .
I had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. .
She knew that I lived at a good address on the Gold Coast , that I had once been a medical student and was thinking of returning to the university to finish my medical studies .
She wasn't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I would not return to it once I was out and on my own again .
I grew up in an Irish neighborhood on Chicago's West Side .
`` Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane '' ? ?
When I think of people like you , well , I '' --
`` You what , Mary Jane '' ? ?
`` That's what I mean about you , Anderson '' , she said .
I'm going to become a good nurse , and I've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I'm an old maid to give it to them '' .
`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , I said .
Aunt Mary died when I was doing my military service .
I'll bet he wouldn't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- I mean , after I'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now '' .
How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover '' ? ?
`` If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer .
It suddenly seemed very important to me that Mary Jane Brennan should know the truth about me -- that I was not the confused , sick , irresponsible person she believed me to be .
`` There are things about me that I can't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I'd like to tell you the whole story .
`` We'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , I said .
Now , riding this hospital bus , feeling isolated and utterly alone , I knew that she was genuine and unique , quite unlike any girl I had known before .
Only two people in the state of Illinois knew that I was entering Hanover State Hospital under an assumed name , or why .
It was unlikely that any girl as sharp as Mary Jane Brennan would believe it without proof .
But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show her the moment I was free to do so .
As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order .
I wondered suddenly as I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if I had not perhaps imagined it all .
Perhaps this was reality and Dale Nelson , the actor , was delusion ; ;
I had come to Chicago from New York early in September with a dramatic production called Ask Tony .
But because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era , many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie .
Ask Tony was doomed from the moment Kupcinet leveled on it in his Sun-Times column .
We opened on Friday and closed the following Monday .
We were paid off Tuesday morning and given tickets back to New York .
I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel .
I knew that I'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open .
It suddenly occurred to me that I did not particularly like acting , that I was at some sort of crossroads and would have to decide soon what I was going to do with my life .
When I answered it a voice too dignified and British to be real said , `` Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor '' ? ?
This is Dale Nelson the actor '' .
I'm calling you , Mr. Nelson , at the request of Mr. Phillip Wycoff .
`` Yes , of course , Mr. Nelson '' .
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony .
`` You Mr. Nelson '' ? ?
The Oldsmobile with the license number JYJ 114 was in stall number five .
`` Okay '' , I said to the attendant , `` I'll let you know if I close the deal on the office in this building '' .
He started to say something as I walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes .
I sat where I could watch the exit and realized I was hungry .
My man came out an hour later , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel .
I remembered it was the Peeping Tom place .
I noticed that he was in Unit 12 and that he had registered under the name of Oscar L. Palmer and wife , giving a San Francisco address .
I used the alias of Robert C. Richards , gave the first three letters and the first and last figure of the license number on the agency heap , but a couple of phony numbers in between .
`` You mean you're all alone , Mr. Richards '' ? ?
The powerful microphone I could press against the wall between my motel unit and that occupied by the man would bring in the sound of any conversation , and I was positively nauseated I was so hungry .
She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers .
When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
As she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person , she knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren .
I'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I don't give a damn what you tell them -- only don't believe a word they say -- they're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I don't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon's -- yeah , yesterday .
He knew Vince Steiner was one of those men who had to work up a fury once in a while just to prove how dangerous he could be .
`` You and Barney get her over to Rose's before it gets too light .
Vince shouted finally , `` Get her over to Rose's and I'll come by and see that she stays put '' .
`` Are you a poor dumb Canadian or a smart aleck from the States '' ? ?
Lauren said , `` Why can't I call my home ? ?
In her mind she followed the white Buick along the road somewhere between here and the Niagara River .
Her father's attention would be on the road ahead and it wouldn't deviate an inch until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned in at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights .
This was Acey Squire , proprietor of the juke joint .
Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here .
The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville .
The Ford and the pickup truck sped west toward Sanford's Run .
Perhaps it was Dora May .
It was probably one of Kipling's tales of the British Army .
A second car was coming from the west , from the direction of Sanford's Run .
It was the Ford that had been outside Burch's farm .
Marty knew how the Union soldiers must have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell .
Back East the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it `` Chicken '' .
`` Get in '' , Charley Estes said brusquely .
It was Pete Holmes , the cabdriver .
Pete turned around and said to Marty , `` I guess you think I'm a yellow-bellied hound .
If I'd stayed , all that I'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head .
Every man in every one of these houses is a Night Rider .
He turned his head and said , `` Alvarez will definitely be in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach within an hour .
That wasn't too far from Fifth Street , and should allow him to make Scotty's Bar by midnight .
He said with satisfaction , `` That's fine , Tim .
We've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez '' .
`` I'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I'll be going on over to the Beach .
Timothy Rourke gulped down the whiskey hastily and joined him , asking , `` Who are we going to call on in the Northeast section '' ? ?
In Rourke's car , Shayne drove east to Biscayne Boulevard and north toward Felice Perrin's address which had been given to him by the Peralta governess .
As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises .
`` I want to be in Scotty's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly .
`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , doesn't it '' ? ?
`` It does '' , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot .
Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
Shayne noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied .
He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , `` It's the next house , Mike .
`` I told you , Mike '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice .
Shayne said , `` I know it was , Tim '' .
`` It has a Beach license , Tim .
Unless I'm crazy as hell , they're two of Painter's dicks .
A couple named Harris and Geely .
On Felice Perrin .
You're a reporter , and you're looking for Miss Perrin to interview her .
As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come on around to the lounge where I'll be waiting '' .
Shayne told the bartender , `` Bourbon and water '' , and Rourke told him , `` It's those two , all right .
I made them show me their identification before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin '' .
Shayne said happily , `` I've got it all worked out , Tim .
In exactly three minutes , go in that phone booth behind you and call Police Headquarters .
The bartender brought Rourke's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar .
He said in a low voice , `` I've got a date with a lady , Mister .
As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike '' ? ?
`` Make a couple of punk detectives named Geely and Harris wish to God they'd stayed out of my way this afternoon .
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south .
On this side of the Bay , Miami Beach cops had no more legal rights than any ordinary citizen , and Shayne's pistol permit was just as good as theirs .
Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up .
He turned , then , to look toward the lighted Boulevard , and saw Rourke's tall , emaciated figure come out of the lounge and hurriedly start to angle across the street toward the opposite side .
Shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where Felice Perrin lived , and asked casually , `` Get the police okay '' ? ?
Shayne found one marked Perrin Aj .
I wouldn't have to tell them I had Roberts --
Before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face , he slammed his right fist into Roberts' belly .
Then Roberts was on him , gasping for breath and for a couple of seconds Mickey lost sight of the blade .
There's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- Wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about Roberts and lamming out .
When the dust settled , he went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts' body onto his shoulder .
It was a bad place for Roberts to wind up , but Roberts had asked for it .
On the highway he relaxed and enjoyed the drive over Lake Pontchartrain and along the coast .
A clerk in the outer office took him in to Sheriff Carruthers , a big , paunchy man with thick , white hair and a voice with a senatorial resonance which suggested he should be running for higher office .
Seated in front of the desk , Hank said , `` I'm looking for some information with very little to go on , Sheriff '' .
He explained the background of the case , ending with the tenuous clue which had brought him to Gulf Springs .
The editor says that marriages may be made in heaven , but weddings are made in Mrs. Calhoun's columns .
`` Once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed .
Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord .
From Baton Rouge .
Married a man named Vincent Black .
`` Was her name Lisa Carmody '' ? ?
`` Mr. Ferrell Hirey Lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors .
Mr. Ferrell is a private detective , Hirey .
`` I'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , said Hirey .
Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months .
It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others .
Mr. Black's life was an open book , so to speak , from his birth in Jackson , Mississippi , through his basketball-playing days at L.S.U. and his attainment of a B.A. degree , which had presumably prepared him for his career as district sales manager for Peerless Business Machines .
The one line on the bride said she was Miss Lisa Carmody from Baton Rouge .
No mention of New Orleans .
Hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for Mr. Black .
If Mrs. Black was who he thought she was , Mr. Black's Peerless selling days might well be over .
Now for their exodus from Gulf Springs .
The item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town -- so the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago .
Next on his program was a call to the Jackson office of Peerless Business Machines to find out if Vincent Black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us .
For the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial .
Until now , Lilac Gaylor and Lila Kingsley had been like an anagram which he could unscramble at his own pace and choosing .
Gaylor's obsession and Cunningham's chimera-chasing reminiscences had mesmerized him into thinking of Lila and Lilac , separately or together , as a legend .
`` Well '' -- said Mr. Skyros .
`` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros .
And I done favors for you , big favor not so long back , didn't I , and I'm right here to take on where Pretty left off .
I don't want no trouble , you don't want no trouble , nobody wants trouble , Mr. Skyros '' .
Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in .
Really he had Mr. Skyros at bay
Acourse there's this deal o' Denny's -- and Jackie's -- kinda hangin' fire , ain't it , maybe you've been kinda worryin' over that .
And can't say I blame you '' , said Angie thoughtfully .
Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly .
All just by chance , and in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie --
Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
And Mr. Skyros didn't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? ?
Denny said stupidly , `` Why , you ain't turning Angie down , are you , Mr. Skyros ? ?
I mean , we all figured -- I guess anybody'd figure -- Angie '' --
`` It's O.K. , Denny , everything's O.K. Ain't it , Mr. Skyros '' ? ?
Oh , God , the name repeated over and over , anybody to hear -- Not being a fool , Mr. Skyros knew why .
If Mr. Skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause --
The sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps --
Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ? ?
`` Sure , sure , you're the one take over for Pretty , soon as I get the supply , get started up again , isn't it ? ?
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
I don't know if I can manage it tonight or tomorrow , but I'll try my best , my friend .
`` Well , that's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window .
I'm in a room over the Golden Club on San Pedro , you just ask for me there , you want see me .
A couple decks for me , Mr. Skyros -- and ten-twelve to sell , see , I like to have a little ready cash '' .
`` Oh , now , I don't know about that much '' , said Mr. Skyros .
`` And you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say '' --
`` Sure , Mr. Skyros .
Never mind how much I cut it , how much I get '' , and he smiled his sleepy smile again .
`` Standard deal , Mr. Skyros .
`` I do my best '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , my friend .
Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
And , Here , I'll take this , I was before her , you wait on me now or I don't bother with it , see ! !
She'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that wasn't really long to wait .
She'd say she didn't feel good on Sunday , couldn't go to church -- there'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she'd need to take , all but the dress she'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime .
Then on Monday morning -- or it might have to be Tuesday -- get up and leave just the usual time , and last thing , put the money in an envelope under the old woman's purse there in the drawer .
No need leave a note with it , either -- or maybe just something like , Don't worry about me , I'm going away to make a better life .
To be Katharine Ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- Different place , different job , different people , she'd be all different too .
Oh , Katharine's awfully nice , and pretty too , I like Katharine -- Let's ask Katharine to go with us , she's always lots of fun -- Katharine --
Here '' -- She thrust a bundle of keys strung on a thick red cord into Sarah's hand .
Well -- I'll take it down with me as I go '' .
`` I don't know Mrs. Stowe .
But of course the paterollers won't be of any help , not with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where '' .
She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father's entire estate .
She had lost a bottle of opium -- but that was on the trip from New Orleans .
Yes , she had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner , just before Emile was shot .
It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her .
Her skin crawled : Lolotte had told Maude that she was in the hall and the door was open .
Sarah had begun to tell Lucien of Emile , she had begun to question and a little draft had crept across the room from the bedroom door , open barely enough to show a rim of blackness in the hall .
The opium had disappeared before Emile's death and whoever shot him could not by any stretch of the imagination have foreseen Sarah's own doubts and suspicions -- and questions .
She wouldn't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; ;
She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she hadn't .
`` Too much work this morning , Miss Sarah -- everybody gone like that '' --
I don't know what we're going to do , Miss Sarah '' .
The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; ;
Yet Maude had suggested that Sarah return to New York .
Rev , George and Lolotte were mending shoes .
Lolotte held a patch of leather , Rev steadied something , a tiny brad , waiting for George's poised hammer .
George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' --
Rev said , `` Come in , Sarah .
And what news , Sarah thought as satirically as Maude might have said it .
He turned to George and Lolotte .
Always provided that Lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as Maude might have said it .
She paused at the kitchen door , caught her breath , told herself firmly that the opium was only an attempt to frighten her and went into the kitchen , where Glendora was eyeing the chickens dismally and Maude was cleaning lamp chimneys .
`` Miss Sarah , I can't cut up no chicken .
She eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of Glendora's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs .
Also , it's just possible she might know something about Mrs. Gilborn '' .
He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black .
It was a cold , windy day , the day after Kitti's death , but Stanley Gilborn paid no attention to the blustery October wind .
After leaving Conrad , Gilborn had no destination .
The enormity of what Conrad had told him made it impossible for Gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it .
Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ? ?
For thirty minutes , Stanley Gilborn stood there .
In the street , walking as quickly as he could , Stanley Gilborn was a lone figure .
On Blanche Jacobs , Kitti Gilborn's death had a quite different effect .
For Blanche , Kitti's death was a source of guilty , but nonetheless soaring , happy hope .
For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose .
Unquestionably , Blanche loved Stanley .
It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker hadn't been everything that Blanche was not .
Kitti was thirty years younger than Stanley , taller than Stanley , prettier than Stanley had any right to hope for , much less expect .
There was no reason for her to marry someone like Stanley Gilborn , there was no need for her to marry Stanley .
Blanche knew something must be causing Stanley's new , strange behavior but she never once connected it with Kitti Walker .
Then , six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married .
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
To make it clearer he shifted to acting out , but with no change of manner , the killing of Rose Mallory .
If Rose Mallory's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch .
Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness .
This , you will remember , was still New Year's Day .
You've been away from home for the New Year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home .
It's not too much to assume that you will have a more lasting interest in paper hats than will Mr. Average Citizen .
What I'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix's being an odd one .
`` That much Latin we remember '' , Gibby said dryly .
`` The past I leave to historians '' , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy .
We are Assistant District Attorneys .
First thing I did after my twenty-first birthday was go into court and have it officially changed , and this is something I don't tell everybody .
You may think we didn't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case .
Someone on his staff -- he suspected it was Ed Thornburg -- intercepted them and for this Andy was grateful .
`` Sorry , Mr. Paxton .
She's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton .
Raymond Fox reported that the orchestra had hastily rehearsed `` Cradle Song '' in case it was needed .
Charlie Marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino's open date .
Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements .
But from Rocco Vecchio , they heard nothing .
Hub , nosing about , spotted reporters in the lobby , so Andy was hustled away quietly through the hotel's service entrance in a strange car which Hub had procured somewhere .
`` It's worse inside '' , Thornburg informed Andy .
He instructed Shirl Winter to compose a note of thanks to be posted on the call board .
Bake was waiting to report that Lou DuVol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently .
Andy told him , `` Bake , I wish you'd talk to Skolman , see if some kind of p. a. system can be rigged up outside .
A short time later , Lieutenant Bonner stomped into the dressing room .
`` I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton .
Bonner explained that , with the nightclub's cooperation , the police had occupied El Dorado like a battlefield .
Or have a sign on his car that says , ' Here Comes the Paxton Kidnapper ' '' ? ?
Bake and Shirl Winter , on separate telephones , could not reach him at any conceivable location in Los Angeles , nor could they secure any clear-cut information regarding his efforts .
Thornburg popped in to advise , `` Andy , Skolman's sending up smoke signals .
Thornburg added in a lower voice but Andy overheard , `` They act more like a jury than an audience '' .
Andy said , `` Well , I guess we can't wait any longer .
Shirl Winter said , `` I'll stay on the phone , Mr. Paxton .
Rocco Vecchio -- a perspiring , haggard Vecchio -- was standing there , flanked by two men in the uniforms of armored transport guards .
Ray , if you please -- the ' Cradle Song ' '' .
`` It's okay , Mr. Paxton .
Thornburg knew , better than any of them , that a public image was as fragile as Humpty Dumpty .
`` The Bartlett girl was killed by Mr. Dronk's son .
Young Mrs. Arthur had opened the oven and there was a drifting odor of hot biscuits .
There was excuse enough to keep him home that young Mr. Arthur's still over there '' .
`` But I couldn't do that , even if I were home '' ! !
`` Also , that Mr. Ferguson was here .
In his office , Mr. Holden replaced the phone slowly .
Let her call Crosson if she wanted to , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he didn't care .
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light .
He could tell them his fears of being involved , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson's silent patience .
He could throw himself on the mercy of the Police Department .
At that moment , Holden almost slammed on the brakes to go back to Cooper and ask if Ferguson was about .
Why , Holden said to himself , surprised at his own sudden insight , I'll bet some of those people who enter are just as happy as can be .
If Ferguson's car had been in sight , Holden would have walked directly to it .
A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? ?
Men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the Hotel Dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the West Forties .
Men from the Third Detective District , Eighteenth Precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job .
At the Hotel Dumont there had , at the time in issue , been twenty-three overnighters , counting couples as singular .
These included , as one , Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Payne , who had checked in a little after noon the day before , and had not checked out together .
But Gardner Willings was not included ; ;
The Hotel King Arthur across the street provided almost twice as many problems .
The King Arthur offered respectable and convenient lodgings to people from the suburbs who wanted to see a show and didn't want -- heaven knew didn't want ! !
The King Arthur was less expensive than the Dumont .
The King Arthur had fifty-four overnighters , again counting rooms rather than people .
Several at the King Arthur .
( Detective Pearson , Eighteenth Precinct , thought for a time he might be on to something .
Well , a man had tried , at the King Arthur , to register with an ocelot .
At the King Arthur one guest had had his head heavily bandaged , and another had a bandaged foot and had walked with crutches .
There had also been a man who must have had St. Vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head .
As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head .
There was no sign of Mrs. Lauren Payne at her house on Nod Road , Ridgefield , Connecticut .
Livingston Birdwood , producer of Uprising .
Take Gardner Willings .
) There was nothing to indicate that Lauren Payne was primitive .
It occurred to Bill Weigand that he was , on a hunch basis , eliminating a good many .
The boy had , apparently -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
A man named Lars Simon , playwright-director , had expressed a wish that Anthony Payne drop dead .
A man named Blaine Smythe , with `` y '' and `` e '' but pronounced without them , had been fired at Payne's insistence .
He was also , if Pam North was right , a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne's than she , now , was inclined to admit .
Stilts and Shadow , on Pam's bed , appeared to be one cat -- rather large , as Siamese cats go , and , to be sure , having two heads and two tails .
Pamela North said , `` Hi '' , to her cats , and added that proper cats met their humans at the door .
The hell it isn't dinnertime , two waving tails told Pam North .
A vague feeling that Anthony Payne had had it coming was hardly a thought and was , in any event , reprehensible .
Had Faith Constable's explanation of her confidence , so uninvited , been a little thin ? ?
`` I said I would '' , Pam said .
They don't , Mrs. Constable .
`` Call this a cry for help '' , Faith Constable said .
He scooped up the receiver and said , `` Police chief '' , into the mouthpiece , and then , `` Oh yes , Mr. Benson .
With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began to make notes as he listened , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals .
At last he said , `` Well , thank you for calling , Mr. Benson .
`` He's just heard from the pathologist who says Mrs. Meeker apparently died from suffocation '' .
The duration of the digestive process varies , the pathologist says , but the empty stomach and the findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract indicate that Mrs. Meeker died several hours after her seven-o'clock dinner .
Madden , with his investigation centered on the fraud , said that tomorrow he would go to the Bronx bank through which Mrs. Meeker's checks to Johnston had cleared .
If Arthur Williams was involved in the fraud or the murder , then he too had another identity .
No one the Medfield police had questioned professed to know any more about him than about Johnston .
Madden explained that he was thinking of an application sent directly to Mrs. Meeker .
Then he asked to use the phone and called Brian Thayer , who said that he was just leaving to keep a lunch date but would be home by two o'clock .
Madden said that he would see him at two and made another call , this one to Mrs. Meeker's lawyers .
Mr. Hohlbein was out for the day , but Mr. Garth would be free at one-thirty .
He inferred that Hohlbein and Garth were high-priced lawyers .
Promptly at one-thirty he entered Hohlbein and Garth's elegant suite of offices in Medfield's newest professional building .
that she was active in the Woman's Club and he in Lions , Rotary , and Jaycee ; ;
Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it .
He asked to see a copy of Mrs. Meeker's will .
She had reason to change the one she made right after Mr. Meeker's death .
At the time the will was drawn Mr. Hohlbein mentioned to me how mentally alert she seemed for her age , knowing just what changes she wanted made and so forth '' .
`` Mr. Hohlbein and I have noticed some lapses since , though .
Even two or three years ago I doubt that she'd have become involved in this unfortunate Johnston affair .
Mrs. Meeker hadn't struck him as ready to seek anyone's advice , least of all Garth's .
He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , pausing when he came to the scholarship fund .
Two millions were added to what had been set aside for it in Mrs. Meeker's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees ( hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate ) he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
A splendid vote of confidence in Thayer , Madden reflected .
to Joan Sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid to her in the event that she was still in Mrs. Meeker's employ at the time of the latter's death .
Mr. Hohlbein was left twenty thousand , Garth ten .
The lawyer didn't know him very well although he saw him occasionally at some dinner party -- Thayer , like himself , Madden reflected , was the extra man so prized by hostesses -- and found him easy enough to talk to .
He said that he had already told the police chief that he didn't know what insurance man had recommended Johnston to Mrs. Meeker .
The whole thing , his manner conveyed , was so far outside the normal routine of Hohlbein and Garth that it practically demanded being swept under the rug .
No doubt Mrs. Meeker had snubbed him many a time and he felt no grief over her passing .
To begin the interview , he asked if Thayer , with more time to think it over , could add to what he had said the other day about Johnston .
Griffith had confronted Hoag on the building's front steps -- Hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing .
Hoag said , `` I didn't send for you , Leigh .
You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot .
If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' .
`` I want Captain Docherty '' .
Docherty said , `` It's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by '' .
`` He claims Mahzeer's in a plot to kill the P.M. '' .
And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he wouldn't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well .
But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building .
If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street .
If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes .
With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport .
The occupants of Apartment Number 3 were probably away for a few days , and not likely to return on a Friday .
He realized now he had more than half hoped he wouldn't find him -- that Muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond Hoag's control .
He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag's apartment .
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris's office ( to the left ) , the lieutenant's office ( farther along and to the left ) and the janitor's supply closet ( straight ahead ) .
The safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold Policemen's Ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps .
Gun set the captain's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath , though he knew that Killpath's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff's gift .
He walked up to the lieutenant's office , leaned wearily against the gun rack that housed four rifles and a gas gun nobody remembered having used and a submachine gun that was occasionally tried out on the Academy Range .
Gun went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair .
Fight with Sam Schaeffer , fight with the whole damned Bureau .
Because I'm looking for the son of a bitch that killed that old man , and I'm going to get him .
He sat stiff-backed in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair .
Finally , Orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` We can't have people running in any time they please , Sergeant '' .
Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant .
The day-watch platoon commander , Lt. Rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but Matson couldn't make the names mean anything .
Gun knew it was Car 12 , the wagon , returned from delivering Ingleside's drunk-and-disorderlies to the City Jail .
He stared at the report in Killpath's hand , sure it was written by Accacia -- just as sure as if he'd submitted it in his scrawled longhand .
He sucked in his breath and kept quiet while Killpath laid down the sheet again , wound the gold-wire stems of his glasses around his ears and then , eying the report as it lay before him on the desk , intoned , `` Acting Lieutenant Gunnar Matson one failed to see that the station keeper was properly relieved two absented himself throughout the entire watch without checking on the station's activities or the whereabouts of his section sergeants three permitted members of the Homicide Detail of the Inspector's Bureau to arrogate for their own convenience a patrolman who was thereby prevented from carrying on his proper assignment four failed to notify the station commander Acting Captain O. T. Killpath of a homicide occurring in the district five frequented extralegal establishments known as after-hours spots for purposes of an unofficial and purportedly social nature and six '' -- he leaned back and peeled off his glasses `` -- failed to co-operate with the Acting Captain by returning promptly when so ordered .
`` I didn't think Accacia knew so many big words , Lieutenant '' .
It's too bad I didn't call you , and it's too bad I let Schaeffer use Accacia when he could have had a boy who'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure .
But I'm not one damned bit sorry I went out to question the people I know in the places they hang around , and '' --
`` Let's not push our patience beyond the danger line , Sergeant '' , Killpath nasaled .
An argument with Orville Torrence Killpath was as frustrating and as futile as a cap pistol on a firing range .
A district station can't run smoothly , unless '' -- He interrupted himself , looking around Gun at the doorway .
`` Morning , Lieutenant Rinker '' .
It had come as no great surprise to Matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that Loren Severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes .
If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; ;
Mission Street at this hour was populated by a whole community that Gun could not have seen on his tour of duty -- the neighborhood that had known Urbano Quintana by day .
Sol Phillips had purchased the Alliance Furniture Mart seventeen years ago .
On the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was Gonzalez , Prop. , and under that , Se Habla Espanol .
Mr. Phillips took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome .
Mr. Phillips had only to signal from his doorway to summon aid from the ubiquitous bilingual children who played on the sidewalks of Mission Street .
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
`` She's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
His name was George Needham and he , too , had come from a good family .
For he had understood that Betty had been engaged to a boy named Barry Jenkins .
He wanted to ask her about Jenkins now , but he knew he couldn't do so in Needham's presence .
`` Haven't I , George '' ? ?
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' .
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty's estate to subsidize him .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton's car was still there .
In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him .
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it .
When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? ?
It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly .
`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' .
`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I wouldn't want that picture published '' .
Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda .
That's all I know about it and that's all I care '' .
`` But I meant what I said , Casey .
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton's home number .
If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can .
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
`` Reverse '' , Elaine said , then peered through the loop of the RDF and waved to Poet .
Once , in New York , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine .
Silently , Elaine picked up her keys from the table and went out into the cockpit , Poet behind her , Nick trailing behind him .
`` It's quite possible there's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
For a while Nick followed the twisting course of the bubbles , wondering which set came from Elaine .
And Graham wanted money probably to roam among the dice tables in Las Vegas .
Two to three weeks prior to the charter of the Virginia , Graham had been snooping around the San Luis Rey Mission .
If the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday he would have had an eyeful .
Off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward San Clemente .
Nick recalled stories that the two best fishing spots in Southern California were over the La Jolla Deep and the Redondo Deep , two spots where the ocean dropped off to fantastic depths almost from the shoreline .
Someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more La Jolla or Redondo Beach .
`` We're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said .
Turning quickly toward Elaine , Nick saw that she , too , stood in shocked surprise .
Instinctively aware of the charged atmosphere , Poet raised his head slowly , looking first at Elaine .
And then Nick knew that all of them knew Elaine , himself and Poet .
`` It's like banging a shin '' , he said , his eyes lingered on Nick's face , then moved back to Elaine .
At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , the sound ending abruptly as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet .
The rubber and glass face mask slipped from Poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off Nick's chin , then disappeared .
For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and Poet's slippery body spun completely around before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear .
Desperately , Nick flashed one hand up , catching Poet's neck in the bend of his elbow .
Relentlessly , Nick held on , sucking on the hose , inhaling the air that belonged to Poet .
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ;
Hardly expected the head of County Homicide up for this murder .
Rookie investigator last summer and now it's Inspector Jed .
Who was the murdered woman Mrs. Buck '' ? ?
Came to the Harbor as a bride and Don't worry Jed , this one is in the bag .
`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
`` About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble .
Colored fellow named Tim Williams -- only hand she has working for her now .
Tim come with the migratory workers that follow the crops up from the South last year , but Tim and his wife settled here .
Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again .
No doubt about Tim being the killer -- I have a witness .
`` Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris .
Probably the last of the original Island Indians .
Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room .
Swears she recognized his voice , that Tim yelled , ' It's my money and I want it ' ! !
Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead .
And before you say it , Nellie ain't near strong enough to have strangled Julia .
There's no doubt this Tim sneaked back and killed Mrs. Buck .
Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel's office '' .
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back .
Being the Harbor's sole doctor , Abel was also its Medical Examiner .
Pulling back the sheet , I examined the bruises around Julia Buck's once slender throat .
Then he said , `` Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' .
I told him , `` I want to go see the Buck house '' .
Walking back down Main Street , I said , `` I saw the Harbor's one squad car at the road block , we'll ride out in my car '' .
`` Naw , we'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
As I slid in beside him he said , `` Some heap , hey ? ?
`` Yeah , it's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford .
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow .
When I asked , `` Why didn't you go into the living room to see how Mrs. Buck was '' ? ?
`` Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about '' ? ?
Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so's I wouldn't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
Nobody came until Chief Moore '' .
I told Moore , `` Where does Tim's wife live '' ? ?
Look Jed , this is an open and shut case and I have to relieve my men at the road block soon .
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? ?
Listen , Mr. Inspector , no matter what anybody say , my Tim didn't kill that woman ! !
`` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' .
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel .
Chief Moore said , `` If I don't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
There was a 34 foot Wheeler with Chief Bob's in big gold letters on its stern also tied up at the dock .
As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car .
She mumbled , `` I just know that Chief Moore is out to kill my Tim '' ! !
You know where Tim is , don't you , Mrs. Williams '' ? ?
I want you to go to Pearson City and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series .
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time .
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press .
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York .
Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City .
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy .
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore .
She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening .
According to Stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask Forbes for the lump sum .
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk .
Find a motive for Stacy or an opportunity for Forbes and the case would be solved .
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate .
Alec's first impression of the lobby was gloomy , Victorian dignity -- black walnut and red plush , a black and white tiled floor , and Persian rugs .
`` I'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service .
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' .
At the end of the corridor Alec noticed a door marked : Fire Stairs .
If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York '' .
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans .
He had seen it in the lineup at Police Headquarters in New York , in Broadway night clubs and Seventh Avenue pool rooms , in the criminal courts .
`` Did you kill Diana Beauclerk '' ? ?
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death .
But you realize , I am sure , how much old deeds incite to new ones , and you must forgive me if I tell you first of the old ones .
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then .
And she answered , `` I don't know , but I hope you'll never do such a thing '' .
He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day's swamp .
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
They had learned , both of them , about Abraham Wharf .
Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; ;
In fact , all the folk who lived on the back of Cape Ann , they are not just like others .
Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger ( her real name was Dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass .
Today Dogtown is the only deserted village in all New England that I know of .
Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do .
Red lived at Lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the Common in a half hour's brisk walk ; ;
Handley lived further on , at Pigeon Cove .
) Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time .
Dead , dead as a brass door nail , and I sometimes feel like the Sexton , for I'm about the last to be even interested .
I knew Red and Handley well .
They'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there's always been an artists' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
They married cousins , Anta and Freya Norberg .
Handley married Freya and Red , of the red beard , married Anta .
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well .
Oh , yes , I'm quite sure it's important , because of the Beech Pasture .
As I was saying , I've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed .
He's always worn a broad-brimmed hat , and I've noticed , in my small study at the Society , that he rather smells of cosmetics .
`` By God , it's that damn Handley , the sneak '' ! !
The Beech Pasture had suddenly become valuable .
Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ? ?
This explained that the judge of probate of Essex County , 1785 or 1786 , appointed three free-holders of Gloucester to divide and establish the Norberg estate .
After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( I can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
And I remember that the whole of the privileges , not counting the Beech Pasture , was valued at twenty pounds .
A disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day I saw Handley escorting Anta , Red's wife , up on Dogtown Common .
Not that I intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and I am a small woman .
Gloomy and unkempt as Red McIver was , he was much the better painter .
If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport .
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley .
Anyhow , I wasn't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road .
`` Guess I can't think of anyone , Pete .
He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I'm taking a bath .
The next day , Sunday , the hangover reminded Haney where he had been the night before .
Of course On Thursday , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her
So you thought I didn't mean what I said .
The stranger's eyes were large and sad , as if Phil Haney had hurt his feelings .
That's why I -- why I do a free job now and then .
After all , I didn't know you , Pete .
`` Listen , I got a buddy I travel with , real nice guy named Larry .
He hesitated a second , looking at the bottle , before he said `` Sure-sure '' , and I reassured him .
`` He'll bring a bottle too , and I'll get another one or maybe two while I'm out .
I introduced my friend Larry to Pops and we made ourselves comfortable .
I was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background .
The poem consisted of only two words , the word `` Wait '' , repeated over and over at irregular intervals and with different inflections , and then the word `` Now '' ! !
I said , `` Wait wait '' to Charlie and he grinned , digging the reference .
About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked at me across Pops , who was sitting between us and asked `` Now '' ? ?
I said , `` Wait '' , and handed the bottle to Pops for his final drink .
When he handed it back and I had hold of it safely , Pops was looking toward me and I said `` Now '' , to Charlie and he swung the short length of lead pipe he'd meanwhile taken from his pocket , once .
I reached my hand toward him to put it inside his shirt to feel for a heartbeat , but Charlie said `` Wait '' ! !
The thunk was louder , anyway , and I thought I heard bone crack .
We straightened Pops up and I made sure there was no trace of a heartbeat .
Less than three hours ago we'd decided , in Maxine Wells's pad on Cosmo , to commit a trial murder .
I'd tell him everything I'd learned about Seaton's habits and habitat , and he'd tell me the score on Radic .
We made the date for two o'clock in the afternoon at Maxine Wells's pad .
From here on in , the less Charlie and I were seen together in public , or visited one another's rooms , the better .
I talked first , telling him everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements .
He gave me equivalent and even more detailed dope on Radic , including diagrams -- one of the apartment building Radic lived in and one of the apartment itself .
it was not quite six o'clock when we finished and Charlie said , `` Well , I guess that's it .
`` Wait a minute , Charlie '' , I said .
And if you're as flat broke as I am , I think we'll have to take the added risk of knocking over a filling station or something before we split for one of us to set up an alibi while the other does his dirty work '' .
If you draw the short straw I'll lend you some bread , like fifty bucks , before I take off to visit my sister in Frisco .
Then , after I'm back , another fifty so you can put some mileage on yourself and have a solid alibi somewhere while I take care of your seat cover boy '' .
You'd have to wait till Seaton's back from Mexico City and also while I set it up with Doris to have her have an alibi for D-night .
Well -- in that case , I take off tomorrow morning for Frisco .
Mike stopped to cherish all his brother selves , the many threes-fulfilled on Mars , corporate and discorporate , the precious few on Earth -- the unknown powers of three on Earth that would be his to merge with and cherish now that at last long waiting he grokked and cherished himself .
there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle ( not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone ) why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing --
there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected ( by each differently ) by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby .
He was closer to understanding it in English now , although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for .
In his mind he spoke simultaneously the English sentence and the Martian word and felt closer grokking .
As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; ;
But my people -- Martians , I mean ; ;
Mr. Booker T. W. Jones Food Technician First Class is not sad ; ;
Is that -- I mean , ' Do you know ' '' --
As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' .
Then , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate her voice called him back : `` Oh ! !
The Old Ones neither helped nor hindered this plan ; ;
Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium .
A colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and Mrs. Joseph ( `` Shadow of Greatness '' ) Douglas was quoted as saying : `` I would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes '' .
A Tibetan swami from Palermo , Sicily , announced in Beverly Hills a newly discovered , ancient yoga discipline for ripple breathing which increased both pranha and cosmic attraction between sexes .
The President of the United States proclaimed the first Sunday in November as `` National Grandmothers' Day '' and urged America to say it with flowers .
Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated bodily to Heaven and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster .
The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- a candidate accepted by the Boone faction after lots had been cast repeatedly .
L'Unita and Hoy published identical denunciations of Short's elevation , l'Osservatore Romano and the Christian Science Monitor ignored it , Times of India snickered at it , and the Manchester Guardian simply reported it -- the Fosterites in England were few but extremely militant .
The Man from Mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up .
Foster listened with angelic patience until Digby ran down , then said , `` Listen , junior , you're an angel now -- so forget it .
Now that Short is Supreme Bishop he'll do all right , he can't help it .
But , I'm telling you , it'll be turned down -- you don't understand the System yet .
If you need a Day off to calm down , duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it .
`` Okay , I'm Happy .
Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other .
This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before .
Even rock-steady Anne -- Hell , Anne was the worst ! !
Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes .
`` Forgive me , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
Did not the Forerunner predict in his Time and the World Line that such a planet would be found ? ?
I still bear scars on my back where Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me because I had not learned my lessons well enough .
As I grew older and was promoted , so was he , always where I was .
He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him .
He is the one responsible for my getting such low M. R.'s .
No , not he , for I , and I alone , am responsible for whatever happens to me .
If I get a low M. R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does .
If I die , I die because I willed it so .
`` Please pardon me again , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
But , from our reading of the Western Talmud , we Urielites believe that the Forerunner , knowing this situation would arise , made reference to and provision for divorce .
Six months later , Hal Yarrow stood in the observation dome of the Gabriel and watched the ball of Earth dwindle above him .
It was night on this hemisphere , but the light blazed from the megalopolises of Australia , Japan , China , Southeast Asia , India , Siberia .
Australia , the Philippine Islands , Japan , and northern China were inhabited by those members of the Haijac Union that spoke American .
Southern China , all of southeast Asia , southern India and Ceylon , these states of the Malay Federation spoke Bazaar .
His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea .
All around the Mediterranean Sea , Asia Minor , northern India , and Tibet , Hebrew was the native tongue .
In southern Europe , between the Israeli Republics and the Icelandic-speaking peoples of northern Europe , was a thin but long stretch of territory called March .
This was no man's land , disputed by the Haijac Union and the Israeli Republic , a potential source of war for the last two hundred years .
Neither nation would give up their claim on it , yet neither wished to make any move that might lead to a second Apocalyptic War .
Hal saw in his mind the rest of Earth : Iceland , Greenland , the Caribbean Islands , and the eastern half of South America .
Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War .
Then there was North America , where American was the native speech of all except the twenty descendants of French-Canadians living on the Hudson Bay Preserve .
Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space .
But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti .
If Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash , he must have wanted it that way .
He had to study the recordings of the language of the chief nation of Ozagen , Siddo .
The expedition that had discovered Ozagen had succeeded in correlating two thousand Siddo words with an equal number of American words .
His duty was to write a school text and to teach the entire personnel of the Gabriel how to speak Ozagen .
For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen's ; ;
Plus the fact that Siddo not only had the normal ( to Earthmen ) three genders of masculine , feminine , and neuter , but the two extra of inanimate and spiritual .
He had already become used to Hesperus' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked .
`` I did not perceive this essential distinction either , First-Born '' , Hesperus said at once , `` I was only practicing a concept that Jack taught me , called a deal '' .
`` For instance , Hesperus agreed to help me find my property , and I agreed to take him to Earth .
`` Hesperus and Lucifer '' , Jack said , `` show that we do '' .
But you should understand , Jack , that Hesperus and Lucifer are not long out of the nursery .
What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws .
The Angels in turn would exercise similar restraints in respect for the natural preferences and natures of the Earthmen -- but they had no faintest notion of man's perverse habit of passing and enforcing laws which were contrary to his own preferences and violations of his nature .
but the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nevertheless did eventually agree on an atomic bomb test ban , and a sort of provisional acceptance of each other's good intentions on this limited question .
Out of that agreement , though not by any easy road , eventually emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; ;
Secretary Hart had taught Jack , at least partially , to be content with small beginnings in all diplomatic matters ; ;
Then the skiff hove into sight , just a dot of light at first against the roiling blackness and crimson streaks of the Coal Sack .
And there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the Nernst generator Jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone .
The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel's life and religion .
It was clear that Langer had at last found a way to attract the Angel's attention .
But it didn't matter now whether he meant to invade the Holy of Holies , or was simply headed in that direction by accident .
But fusion power in the Coal Sack was what had triggered all the trouble in the first place -- and he already had an Angel aboard .
But I can't take you to Earth yet .
`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , Hesperus said promptly .
If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go there at all .
It seemed almost a magnification of the Galaxy itself , of the Milky Way , blown up by some master photographer .
This fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original Solar System .
They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history .
`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , Ryan said .
Insomnia would ground him from the Exploration Service , on physiological if not psychological grounds .
`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt .
`` No '' , Ekstrohm said , `` No , I didn't know that '' .
Soon they all were removed to Central Laboratory School where their delicate transformation began .
However , no diagram of her brain patterns , no early I.Q. tests recorded certain essential facts about Helva that Central must eventually learn .
So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs .
Helva's class was doing Fine Arts , a selective subject in her crowded program .
Her subject was large -- a copy of the Last Supper -- and her canvas , small -- the head of a tiny screw .
`` I am currently reproducing the Last Supper on the head of a screw '' .
`` Of course , some of my color values do not match the old Master's and the perspective is faulty but I believe it to be a fair copy '' .
`` Oh , I forget '' , and Helva's voice was really contrite .
In a kind of shock , the ladies and gentlemen of the committee bent to observe the incredibly copied and brilliantly executed Last Supper on the head of a screw .
`` Are you referring , sir '' , asked Helva politely , `` to the Dark Age discussions of the number of angels who could stand on the head of a pin '' ? ?
If the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School , they left Helva with a morsel as well .
She had , of course , been exposed to and enjoyed a music appreciation course which had included the better known classical works such as `` Tristan und Isolde '' , `` Candide '' , `` Oklahoma '' , `` Nozze de Figaro '' , the atomic age singers , Eileen Farrell , Elvis Presley and Geraldine Todd , as well as the curious rhythmic progressions of the Venusians , Capellan visual chromatics and the sonic concerti of the Altairians .
On the anniversary of her sixteenth year in her shell , Helva was unconditionally graduated and installed in her ship , the Aj .
She could take care of herself and her ambulatory half , in any situation already recorded in the annals of Central Worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine .
There were several missions which demanded instant attention but Helva had been of interest to several department heads in Central for some time and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section .
Had there been another `` brain '' ship at the Base at the moment , Helva would have been guided to make the first move .
As it was , while Central wrangled among itself , Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva's slim metal hull .
She asked hopefully , as she recognized the Scout Service uniform .
I thought perhaps there were no partners available and I've had no directives from Central '' .
Mercer stammered , not knowing what B'dikkat meant , and the two-nosed man answered for him , `` I think he has a nice baby head , but it isn't big enough for you to take yet '' .
He tried to run after B'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell B'dikkat that he loved him .
He tried to tell the Lady Da , but the words weren't quite straight .
The Lady Da forced the foremost of her bodies in an upright position .
The Lady Da and the hand-covered woman stayed near him .
He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again .
`` I never saw that '' , said Mercer , `` but I '' --
The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , `` Take it out , you fool ! !
When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself .
This time B'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of Mercer's thigh -- a sleeping child's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes .
When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body .
Finally , Mercer did manage to follow B'dikkat to the door of the cabin .
Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it .
When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol :
The Lady Da , naked in the dusty plain , waved a hospitable hand and showed that there was a place for him to sit beside her .
Time stood still for these people , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning .
They could still read the opening : `` Once , I was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in .
Now I can only write , and that only when I get out of pain .
Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner .
The easiest thing would be to sell out to Al Budd and leave the country , but there was a stubborn streak in him that wouldn't allow it .
No one walked in this country , least of all Ed Dow or Dutch Renfro or any of the rest of the Bar B crew .
Any lingering suspicion that this was a trick Al Budd had thought up was dispelled .
`` I'm Billy Jones '' , the boy answered .
`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can't afford to pay you anything .
`` I've been mucking in a mine in the San Juan , but I used to work on a ranch .
We'll work hard , Mr. Morgan '' .
`` I'm Dan Morgan .
This is the Rafter Aj .
then she murmured : `` You're very kind , Mr. Morgan .
`` I'm sorry , Mr. Morgan .
`` Mr. Morgan , it's the best-looking food I ever saw '' .
When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he's going to give us work '' .
She said , `` I guess the Lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents '' .
Your feet are in bad shape , Mrs. Jones .
He said : `` If it's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I'll sleep out here on the couch .
He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , `` I understand that , but I don't savvy why you'd go off and leave your jobs in the first place '' .
He was thinking of Rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the Splendide .
`` Do you remember Big Charlie '' ? ?
He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother's son .
It was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- Big Charlie told me so .
They killed Big Charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago .
God in Heaven , I can't refuse you now .
Then he thought of a time when Clayton's horse had fallen lame in the Gap .
His wife had said to him : `` Nellie is in love with Clayton Roy .
`` You're Gavin's son '' , Joe Purvis had said .
Purvis and Silas Pettigrew were the last to leave .
The mare began to tire and Clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of Gavin's stallion .
Ahead of him Gavin turned slightly off the trail and pointed for the Gap , no more than a mile away .
The Gap looming before him -- the place where had confronted Jack English on that day so many years ago -- was his exit from all that had meaning to him .
And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried .
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms .
He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean's affections from her .
And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride .
At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit .
Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal .
`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso .
Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else '' ? ?
That's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King .
Mr. Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin' to raid 'em for their horses .
Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin' to move up .
The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero .
As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company .
For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet .
Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero's methods .
In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river .
`` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly .
But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' .
Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife .
`` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' .
My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought .
Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing .
`` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said .
The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse .
I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian's face became shattered flesh and bone .
Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others .
A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt .
`` From a man in St. Louis '' , Wilson said .
He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson's chest .
His name's Joseph Sanchez .
Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St. Louis had said ; ;
There was only one place where Jake Carwood's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet .
He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem .
For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended .
Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning .
For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there .
When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall .
When I went for my interview with the director I saw why .
I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained .
Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? ?
Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying .
This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
`` It's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit .
Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts .
He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short .
They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night .
He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial .
It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill's release from the prison .
Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart .
You're the only man the Night Riders will follow .
It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure .
`` Your choice '' , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd .
Then Barton touched Carl Dill's arm and moved off , up the river bank .
Both hated Donald Kruger .
Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley .
`` He's in Morgan's Ferry '' .
`` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres' saloon '' .
Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I wouldn't entrust a snake to his tender care .
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame .
It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield .
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence .
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit .
Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation .
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him .
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room .
Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke .
He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco .
`` This is Mitchell Barton .
We don't want Barton's Night Riders loose again '' .
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said .
After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' .
When they reached their neighbor's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again .
When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver .
`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord .
`` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! !
So I can hear you while I'm checkin' the car .
Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible .
But , by gosh , I want him and I'm going to have him ! !
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
`` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I'll get the boss rattler to help me '' .
`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared .
Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood .
That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company .
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
`` Well , I'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him .
You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped 'em do it .
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride .
Now , Mis-ter McBride '' , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss's arm .
He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically .
When he regained consciousness he was in Lord's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy's deceased father .
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon's and his father's wagon .
Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon .
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday .
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon .
He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez .
He'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do .
Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn't heed it '' .
Let Senora Brannon live in her father's house for a time .
`` In a year she'll like living in Clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly .
I've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether .
`` That I can't answer , for I can't imagine something like this happening to me .
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire .
Like Luis , I can't see something like this happening to me .
Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be .
And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom '' .
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis's son Pedro .
The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising .
They reined in before the town marshal's office , a box-sized building on Main Street .
He'd hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there .
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe .
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street .
They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room .
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon .
`` Let's go , Marshal '' , Brannon said , and took him by the arm .
Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal '' .
Then , as Macklin obeyed : `` Now let's go out back '' .
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street .
Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark .
Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering .
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard .
The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis .
William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis' chest .
Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning .
He was finally found in the Bates Hole region of Natrona County , two counties away .
For Tom Horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in Bates Hole the day of the killing .
A good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of William Lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats .
For less than a dozen miles from the unplowed land of the dead man lived another settler who had ignored the warnings that his existence might be foreclosed on -- a blatant and defiant rustler named Fred Powell .
`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later .
On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day's work .
He looked around in surprise , then noticed that Fred Powell was clutching his chest .
`` My God , I'm shot '' ! !
Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately .
But there's one thing I never seen or heard of , one thing I just don't think there is , and that's a sportin' way o' killin' a man '' ! !
When Fred Powell's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice :
All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same .
For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known .
The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week .
Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown .
In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos .
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter .
`` What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner '' ? ?
I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari .
`` One thing , Summers '' , Brenner said .
Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her '' .
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans .
Couldn't I just '' -- His voice trailed off into silence .
He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` Tell her to come to Adams's room , that Adams is in trouble .
The fact that Jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane's information had been wrong , but Curt didn't interpret it this way .
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch's buckskin .
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black .
The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , `` What the hell's the matter with you ? ?
`` You and I have a little talking to do , Jess .
`` Damn you , Adams '' -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock .
If I don't come back in the house , Breed's going to '' --
`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said .
`` It's Ben Arbuckle we're going to talk about '' .
`` So help me , Crouch , I'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I'm going to hear you admit killing him .
Was it Dutch Brenner '' ? ?
Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt couldn't bring himself to do it .
He had found Curt's weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it .
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate .
Pain shot up Curt's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
The tines broke off under Jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt's brains out .
Even Black's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , `` Jess ! !
`` It was Brenner's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose .
He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess .
`` We're going to Marshal Woods's house .
Over his shoulder he could see Max's loose grin and the Burnsides' glowering faces .
Mrs. Jackson's words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting .
He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap .
`` Got a lot to tend to , but I'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her .
Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen .
So long as Sally's pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan didn't feel the need of putting in his two-bits' worth .
Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he'd lead Rex down by the river ; ;
If I hadn't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds'd all be shot plumb to hell ! !
And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon .
Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all .
Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon `` Pa ! !
Then , and only then , with the Jacksons and Dan as their true guests of honor , did the Harrows take time to catch up on the news .
No sooner did they hear of Dan's injury than both Gran and Matilda went into immediate action .
Only , they carefully substituted old country folk dances for the Virginia Reels and square dances that were so popular among more worldly trains in the great westward migration .
But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don't that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn't say us Baptists can't dance '' ? ?
At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
`` Don't reckon there's nobody out there , 'cept maybe Dan , who can outgrip me , Harmony '' .
With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
At the sight of Sally's happy face and carefree expression , Harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears .
She was glad , completely and unselfishly glad , to see that things were working out the right way for both Sally and Dan .
Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' .
Soon she saw Rod and Hez moving over to join them .
Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load .
Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan's face .
`` Quit ragging him , Gran '' , Rod protested .
The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens' signal .
Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink .
`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod's outfit '' .
`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained .
`` Reckon ye're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder .
Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen's backs .
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
It's all I ask , Stevens '' .
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief .
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side .
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike .
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell .
You were right '' , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer's hat .
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' .
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful .
It'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ '' .
`` Old Crip wasn't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
`` But I still think Penny's an awful nice girl , Russ '' --
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober's part in recent events .
`` Gyp Carmer couldn't have known about Colcord's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? ?
`` It's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money .
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house .
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly .
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record .
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte .
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders .
They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it didn't close in before they returned .
`` Roger , Sweeney '' , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg .
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf .
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him .
But Greg's area remained as placid as a Florida dawn .
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies .
He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys ! !
His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification .
He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U. S. Navy type aircraft .
Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes .
The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom .
`` Greg to Sweeney Blue .
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico .
Adios '' , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host's daughters .
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry .
I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I wouldn't have shouted back a taunt .
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' .
Squeezing a look between Johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y'all drahve '' ? ?
`` Onleh one thiihng '' , Mrs. Roebuck continued .
`` Ahm goin nawth t'jawn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y'all maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt .
But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t'hi-im '' .
Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs. Roebuck `` wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit '' ( 35 m.p.h. ) `` is still in ee-faket '' .
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe .
When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? ?
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
`` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? ?
Just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ' Uh coahse you cain't ' , but he says ' Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? ?
An Ah coudn ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh didn uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doan think thet's nahce at all , d'you '' ? ?
`` No , I don't '' , Johnson said .
Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico .
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window .
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck's similarity to Senor X's Ford turtle .
Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all .
Gracias '' , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary .
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ;
When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering .
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
`` That was Tee-wah I was talking .
You thought I was a Mexican , didn't you , buddy '' ? ?
`` Hell , that's all right , buddy '' , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said .
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch '' , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson's quivering ribs .
The car was just about to us , its driver's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue .
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian's lips .
I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle .
But Johnson couldn't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer .
But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson .
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? ?
`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself .
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things .
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I'd seen her somewhere before .
Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? ?
`` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott .
Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! !
Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you didn't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you didn't bathe .
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor .
The water in Thor's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' while cameras rolled .
The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ;
Joyce went on , `` When we'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too .
The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I'd changed '' .
She'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead .
There's a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive .
I didn't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man's suit .
But I'm sure the other one was Lou '' .
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification .
She realized I'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name .
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits .
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits .
`` The commercials have just been for money , there hasn't been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I'd have a chance to act .
But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort .
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I haven't had a chance to wash it off .
I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really don't mind , I think I'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
However , when there's a job to be done , I'm a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think .
As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower .
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` Hi , Shell '' , and walked toward me .
Rawlins worked out of Central Homicide and we'd been friends for years .
Present at the scene -- in addition to the dead man , who was indeed Louis Thor -- had been Thor's partner Bill Blake , and Antony Rose , an advertising agency executive who handled the zing account .
`` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff '' .
`` Yeah , I've heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately .
That was the new advertising angle -- something about a Lloyd's of London policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient .
Actually , only two men know what the formula is , Blake and '' -- He stopped and looked at Thor's body .
`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
If it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics I would have been stymied on what to do , and now I understand why they are classics ; ;
I worked for my Uncle ( an Uncle by marriage so you will not think this has a mild undercurrent of incest ) who ran one of those antique shops in New Orleans' Vieux Carre , the old French Quarter .
I had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint I accepted .
I loved the city and I particularly loved the gaiety and spirit of Mardi Gras .
My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages .
Sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women for my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything .
One Monday morning I saw him approach the store with a woman and introduce me to her as my new Aunt .
It was really a May and December combination .
My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex .
There was something about the contour of her face , her smile that was like New Orleans sunshine , the way she held her head , the way she walked -- there was scarcely anything she did which did not fascinate me .
You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
And that is the way I first saw her when my Uncle brought her into his antique store .
True , she was my Aunt , married to an Uncle related to me only by marriage , but why she had married a man twice her age , and more , perhaps , I did not know or much care .
Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and I felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance .
Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights .
Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable .
`` I don't want to be thrown out and I don't think I will .
`` When I was in college '' , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class .
Tomorrow Mardi Gras opens officially .
If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am .
We made a rendezvous tomorrow evening at nine on some street near Lake Ponchartrain .
`` No '' , I chuckled , `` I'm just beginning to collect dividends on my investment in education '' .
I heard subsequently that my Uncle and Aunt had dinner in a nearby restaurant in the French Quarter after which he went home to get into his costume to keep the date .
Shortly before nine I drove my jalopy to the street facing the Lake and parked the car in shadows far enough away from the rendezvous corner but near enough to keep the corner in clear view .
A few minutes later I saw my Uncle's car drive up and a woman's figure emerge and walk to the corner .
If it were not that I knew who it was I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him .
He was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face .
He opened the myth book again and there ( along the margin next to Robert Graves' imaginative interpretation of the creation of the Dactyls from Rhea's fingertips ) were the names of four Munich bars and Meredith Wilder's address .
A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something .
And indeed , his postcard did draw from Walter a letter recommending his friend , the poet Nicolas Manas , to his friend Meredith Wilder .
Meredith's fingers slowed and stopped over a line before him : Sie lacheln , die Schwarzen Hexen .
The menace of Manas gradually faded as Meredith asked himself should he translate it , ' How the dark fates laughed ' ? ?
And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing at him for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas .
Not by the 11:00 sun which had spread a warmth around his spot of grass in the English Gardens and sent him off to sleep ; ;
Her heart , her maternal feeling , in fact her being was too busy expressing itself , as quietly thrilled by this sight of her Nicolas curled asleep under a blanket , in a park like a scene from Poussin .
( Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter's marked bars ? ?
Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas doesn't go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ? ?
Ballet dancer : Protests , tears , and `` take what you want , Nicolas , I am a dancer , you are a poet , it is all beautiful '' .
To this meek conjugation Nicolas had replied , `` O.K. I can use this blanket .
And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that Munich's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew .
Mary Jane Lerner knew none of this .
That long night with Nicolas and marijuana in Venice had opened her eyes .
Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell her Nicolas's whereabouts .
Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours .
She had arrived this morning and come straight to the English Gardens .
`` Dear girl '' , Walter had finally said , `` he writes me that he is sleeping in the English Gardens '' .
`` His address '' , Walter added , `` is that great foundling home , the American Express .
'' For the last half hour Mary Jane had criss-crossed half the length of the Gardens and , at last , come upon her knight .
His presence there , asleep in the grass , confirmed all that Mary Jane believed it was in his power to teach her : freedom from the tedium of needs such as hotels , the meaning of nature , how to live , simply , with the angels .
In his dream he cried , `` Slow down , for Chrissake '' ! !
The Grafin , who was charmed by her , told her , `` Your sister who was here two years ago has quite dark hair .
But a young American has a bath next to his room and I shall ask him if you might use it this once .
Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty ! !
It would be literary license calculated to glamorize life to say that he , oh , dropped his napkin , so startled was he by Mary Jane's beauty .
Fruit compote : `` If you think I would understand it '' ; ;
Steinhager '' She whispered Steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it .
in reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y.M.H.A. , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy .
The husband points the steps out with his flashlight : `` Its white stare filling her pale eyes To the blind brim with appetite , Bleaching her hands that grazed my thighs And sent us from the table in surprise To let the dishes soak all night , '' ( Mary Jane asked herself if Meredith was blushing at this line , or was it the fire ? ?
In the bedroom before the husband and wife find their way to the bed , the lights go on : `` In dull domestic radiance I watch her staring face , still blind , Start wincing in obedience To dirty waters , counters , pots and pans , Waiting below stairs , in her mind '' .
`` Oh , it's that myth , about Orpheus and What is her name ? ?
She began to explain , `` There was this poet , in Italy '' He interrupted , `` Please don't judge all poets '' .
At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' .
They were west of the Sabine , but only God knew where .
As cheerfully as possible , he said , `` Well , I guess we could all do with a little drink '' .
`` They knew I was a good sharecrop farmer back in Carolina , but out West was a chance to build a real farm of our own .
Without money or property , what would you have had at Baton Rouge '' ? ?
Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit .
He said hesitantly , `` Hettie , I don't figure your things got wet too much .
One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits .
Brassnose yelled : `` Come on , Sommers , Max step on it , we got a chance now .
Brassnose , Max and I leaped into the sea and swam to the boat .
As best as I could determine , we were some 700 miles west of New Guinea , in the Bismark Archipelago .
Three days previously , we had steamed past barren Rennell Island in the distance .
The big man with the whitened hair murmured something : his words sounded as if they were in the Manu tongue , which I recognized , having studied the dialect in my Anthropology 6 , class at the University of Chicago .
I was puzzled by the remark , then I recalled the voice of mild Professor Howard Griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies .
`` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth .
The place is inhabited by several hundred warlike women who are anachronisms of the Twentieth Century -- stone age amazons who live in an all-female , matriarchal society which is self-sufficient '' .
I remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , Bobby Pauson : `` But how do they reproduce , Dr. Griggs ? ?
There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson .
Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you wouldn't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga .
`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , I said .
Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil .
Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul .
Our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what I had heard of the inhabitants of Eromonga , I was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft .
I expected Brassnose -- as a man with a strain of Melanesian in his blood -- to speak to them .
So , I mustered my few words of the Manu dialect and said , `` We greet you in peace .
She said , `` My name is Songau and these girls are Ponkob and Piwen .
As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden :
`` You have every right to be '' , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
I clapped the big man with the bleached hair on his shoulder and said heartily , hoping it would make an impression on the women : `` This one is the maku Frayne .
Brassnose turned a stricken face toward me and said brokenly , `` Sommers , you meddling Yank , you're a fool ! !
But a glance at Songau and the other women confirmed what Brassnose had blurted out .
At a nod from Songau , four lithe and muscular girls darted to Frayne's side and seized him by the arms .
In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought to me by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases .
Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive , I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women .
( Her account was later confirmed by the Scobee-Frazier Expedition from the University of Manitoba in 1951 .
From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations .
Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes , after considerable loss of life on both sides .
Maybe the Indian wasn't too much at fault , Ramey thought .
`` Nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes I think it's the only way I'll ever get a decent partner '' .
It had always seemed strange to Ramey that to disguise himself as a tourist , an ex-truck driver like Horsely would merely pick something outlandish and put it on his head .
He chatted with Ramey and Benson for a minute or so in the meager shade of the trailer .
When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer .
The girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts when Benson , in that barefoot courtliness Ramey could never decide was real , said , `` You don't want to go around there , Ma'am '' .
With Ramey it was a dusty work shoe that was half-off the Indian's foot that he would always remember .
`` Keith '' , said Penny , `` Keith , you were wonderful .
`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , said Keith .
`` But knowing you , I know that you're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because I killed the snake , even though I had to .
We're all God's creatures , aren't we , Penny ? ?
The Brahmaputra has its headwaters in the tableland of the world , the towering white headwalls of the Himalayas that are unknown to man as any other space on the planet .
For a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal .
Keith Sterling had looked down on the Brahmaputra more times than he could remember , during the war days when he flew over the Hump of the world , thinking it high adventure in those times before man was guiding himself through outer space .
Wing Commanders in the RAF do not imply survival in the future either in their orders or in their attitudes , to their men or to themselves .
The RAF was Britain's weapon of attrition , and flying a fighter plane was the way her sons could serve her best at this point in the war .
The Nazis bombed Britain , so the RAF retaliated and shot them all down .
It was a war of nerves , of stamina , of dogged endurance in which the stupid insistence of the British on their right to their own country became ultimately an unsurmountable obstacle to the Nazis , who were better organized and technically superior .
He was aware of her as a frightfully good-looking American WAC , a second lieutenant assigned to do the paper work , ( regardless of how important she might have thought she was ) in the Command offices , but that was all .
The pretty little twittering WACS said he had the look of eagles -- and Penny , hating the cliche , had to admit that in this case it applied .
The bomb plunged into the ground near the Post , but not precisely into the Command room itself .
That is , everyone but Keith and Penny .
After the war , Penny had wanted Keith at least to visit her home with her .
But to Keith's London-bred mind , such acreage sounded rather invincible .
Keith told Penny about his dream to return to India and Burma .
When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy .
He even hunted elephant , although the Asian elephant is not quite as ferocious as his African cousin .
And while he was ever alert for game , and most particularly a tiger , Penny marvelled at the Eden they were traversing .
Now , the next morning , they were anchored at The Elbow and the boat was riding directly over the underwater ledge where the green water turned to deepest blue and the cliff dropped straight down 600 fathoms , with the weighted line beside it ; ;
He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam up to the boarding ladder together .
The German courteously indicated that Robinson should mount first .
`` Temper , temper '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , laughing uneasily .
`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder .
`` When I came up , damnit , I thought I was going down .
`` Well , that's the only way to be '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh .
Personally , I don't blame him for giving up the dive , much as I regret losing the story '' .
`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner all the way out here just for the boat ride ? ?
He went to Key West every fall and winter and was the only man in town who did not know that his title of `` Commodore '' was never used without irony .
Old Commodore Forsythe , who had once lost a fifty-dollar bet on whether he could get both motors started and turn on the running lights without accidentally turning on something else first .
Now it did not occur to him even to wonder whether it was wise for Robinson to dive again : Rob was his boy , the kid he had rescued from the streets , the object of his pride .
`` Why '' , he went on , `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , I didn't think twice about it .
Hell , I gave him the first decent job he ever had , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , Rob '' ? ?
`` Seven years ago , Commodore '' , Rob said impassively .
`` When you gotta go , you gotta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said .
`` No thank you very much '' , Schaffner had answered in his accented English .
Waddell had heard that he had been a commando in Rommel's Afrika Corps , and he said to himself : I'd hate to run into him in the desert on a dark night .
`` Yes '' , Herr Schaffner had said .
`` Well , no '' , Herr Schaffner said .
Now I wish to enter the American market , where the competition is very strong .
With all respect to a fine young man , Mr. Roy is not able to provide these necessaries '' .
`` But surely you have misunderstood Mr. Roy .
`` You intend to speak with Mr. Roy '' ? ?
It is not good , Mr. Waddell : you will do him great harm '' .
There was no doubt that Herr Schaffner meant every word of what he said .
`` I will give Mr. Roy his due for this dive .
`` At least for South Florida '' .
`` By God '' , Waddell said , `` we don't want to upset the boy at this time of all times .
`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered .
And when I make the dive again '' -- He paused ; ;
`` Holy Mary , Mother of God , Star of the Sea , stay Thou with me on this next dive .
Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give me the exclusive .
`` You know I know it '' , Robinson answered warily .
It sounded as if the man were calling him : `` Hey , Japanese hey there , Japanese '' .
He reminded Matsuo of a similar thing he had witnessed in China .
Only Blue Throat and his gang stayed where they were .
He didn't stop till he was within three feet of Blue Throat and by that time the gang leader's right hand was on the butt of his revolver .
`` I'm Billy Tilghman '' , said the stranger , `` and I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' .
Most of the time I get what I ask for '' .
A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman's stomach as Blue Throat's henchmen started shooting .
Somewhere at the far end of the room a voice yelled , `` You all right , Billy '' ? ?
`` Yes , George , but I ain't got poor old Pat's body yet .
`` OK , Tilghman , I'm quitting '' .
`` And me '' , said another Blue Throat henchman .
Tilghman and his partner , George Rust , herded the men into a corner .
`` And now '' , said Tilghman with deadly calm , `` I'll repeat what I said .
I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' .
In two minutes the body of Tilghman's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
`` That critter will be back tomorrow '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he'll bring fifty of his kind back with him .
The Reverend James Doran had scarcely completed Pat Conyers' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie , when shots were heard in the distance .
`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
It was essential that he should restore his formidable reputation as a rip-roaring , ruthless gun-slinger , and this was the time-honored Wild West method of doing it .
He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street .
Any posse riding down the street to demand Blue Throat's surrender would be wiped out with one deadly burst of fire .
The law-abiding citizens of Petrie had gathered inside Kaster's Store , halfway down the street .
Several were firing into the barn when Billy Tilghman arrived .
`` If Blue Throat has his way he'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said .
`` I'm gonna drop these into Blue Throat's lap '' , he announced , `` and I'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window '' .
Here he couldn't be seen by Blue Throat and his gang .
It was the abrupt end of Blue Throat's dictatorship in Petrie .
Of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the Old West , `` Uncle Billy Tilghman '' stands out head and shoulders .
The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung .
He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890's .
Led by Bill Doolin , these mobsters specialized in train robberies but as a sideline they looted stores and robbed banks , making liberal use of their guns .
Bill Doolin's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him .
Billy decided to set an example by arresting one of the ranchers , named Ed Dunn , who lived at Rock Fort .
On a bitterly cold day in January , 1895 , accompanied only by Neal Brown as his deputy , Tilghman left the township of Guthrie and headed for Rock Fort and Dunn's ranch .
`` Wait here , Neal '' , said Tilghman .
Seated near it with his back to the door was the rancher , Ed Dunn .
`` Hello , Ed '' , said Tilghman .
And projecting wickedly through these curtains were the gleaming muzzles of six rifles , all trained on Billy Tilghman .
The men behind them were Bill Doolin and five of his gang -- every man a killer .
`` Just dropped in to ask where Jed Hawkins lives .
`` Well '' , he announced , `` Guess I'll be going now , Ed , and thanks for the warmup '' .
Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown .
That place is crawling with Bill Doolin and his gang '' .
Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman's life hung on a thread .
Back in the house a hoodlum named Red Buck , sore because Billy had been allowed to leave unscathed , jumped from a bunk and swore he was going after him to kill him right then .
`` You'll stay right here '' , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle .
But the fighting marshal's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
That night he reeled out of Ma Murphy's dance hall and proceeded to disturb the peace by shooting off his revolver .
For several months now , Jack Carter , a big overgrown boy of fifteen with a fuzzy , pimpled face and greenish catlike eyes with a lot of red in them , had been haunted by a dream , a vision , of a Woman .
And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack's mind assumed the teacher's face and figure .
Miss Langford ( her first name was Evelyn ) was an attractive girl .
She would look at Jack , with that hidden something in her eyes , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick .
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another .
He hung around the schoolhouse , watching through a window from outside while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order .
About that time Miss Langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she didn't even see him .
Just then Charles Lever yelled , `` Hey , Jack '' , from the quarry road which ran behind the Carter house , and Jack grabbed the lunch from the table and darted out the kitchen door , yelling `` Good-bye , Mom '' over his shoulder .
Charles said as they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school .
But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles' revelations ( even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention ) , so he usually invited them , as he did now .
`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
A nude imaginary picture of Miss Langford flashed across Jack's mind .
She's been hangin' around me a lot here lately , and I figgered I might as well's try it .
`` I might try it one of these days '' , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford .
`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
Jack watched Miss Langford all morning .
He could think of nothing else save his mental image of her nude figure and what Charles had said that morning about Margaret Rider .
Occasionally he would look across the aisle at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did .
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
`` Maybe '' , Jack said idly , watching for Miss Langford .
Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head .
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I'm sorry , Miss Langford .
`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? ?
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
That should do it , he thought , because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work .
`` All right , if you can't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling .
His heart was pounding like a mighty dynamo and he was trying to think , his mind seeming to scream at him like a hurt or frightened child , `` How will I do it ? ?
The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` Look at your watch , Col. Garvier .
Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners .
The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name .
He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South's oldest and most cherished names .
Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil .
The slender , handsome fellow was called Dandy Brandon by the other slaves .
But Dandy had had little experience with girls on his master's plantation in Bayou St. John .
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her .
`` My name is Dandy Brandon , missy .
I belong to Master Alexander Prieur '' .
Satisfied at last , and after a few amorous gambits on her part which convinced Delphine that Dandy was capable of learning new arts , she opened the window and called to her liveried driver .
I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy's purchase .
Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur .
Delphine Lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove Dandy Brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 Perdido Street .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion .
Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries' tender care if he valued his life .
So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home .
Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John .
He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber .
When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner's basket .
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited .
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him .
Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : `` Evil woman ! !
Convulsively , he spat up some blood and collapsed into the arms of Senator Gaston Berche , crimsoning the frilly shirt and waistcoat the politician wore .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead .
Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures .
`` I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him .
After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night .
Dr. Lalaurie and I didn't even know he was in the house until the night of our ball when he came down the stairs '' .
Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans' dives .
The excitement over Brandon's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital .
Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight .
The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion .
the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street .
`` Bastards '' , he would say , `` all I did was put a beat to that Vivaldi stuff , and the first chair clobbered me '' ! !
Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
Ever since the hooch , and the trouble with the Quartet , and Midge and the child .
Curly hair , high cheekbones , wide gnomelike mouth , a pair of drummer's blocky hands , and a body that said well , maybe I can wrestle you for ten minutes -- but then I'm finished .
`` I'm just a poor ex-jazz man , name of -- uh -- Boyd Smith '' .
`` Where'd you come from , Mr. -- uh -- Mr. Smith '' ? ?
After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey '' .
Certainly not , I mean , no that isn't what I said '' ! !
Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles .
When they had licked the last of the wieners' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .
But surprisingly , Kitty's face came up and she said , `` My father .
After a few seconds , she said , `` Dad didn't like Cappy .
You never heard nothin' like it : Kitty's gonna go have an abortion , and Kitty's gonna go away to a convent , and Kitty's this and Kitty's that like he was nuts or somethin' , y'know '' ? ?
`` We're going to Philadelphia '' , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more .
`` No , I don't think so '' , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie .
The fist went down into the pile of flesh , and Ernie heard the bigger man's deeper voice go , `` Aaawww '' ! !
She grabbed at Feathertop's sleeve and shrieked , `` Help him ! !
They neither liked nor disliked the Old Man .
The Old Man was unimportant .
but here he was just Signore or the Old Man .
It went to church on Sunday and one Saturday a month went to confession .
The only thing unusual about the Old Man had long since happened .
Once the Old Man had had a wife .
The way she strutted down the street , the Old Man would have been blind not to have noticed both .
Without looking at him , without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back .
But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig .
The Old Man's very soul could have left him and flown down that street , but he wouldn't have had anyone know it .
There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him .
For all he saw or cared to see , this could have been a town in Italy , not the outskirts of Philadelphia .
It could have been Bari or Chieti for the way it smelled .
What did it matter to him that the park at the foot of Ash Road stretched beneath elevated trains that roared from the stucco station into the city's center at half-hour intervals ? ?
Sameness for the Old Man was framed in by a wall of ginkgo trees which divided these quarters from the city .
And the coffee shop on Drexel Street , where the men spent their evenings and Sundays playing cards , had a rose hedge beneath its window .
Did the Old Man remember them there ? ?
The Old Man silently fed upon these streets .
The Old Man's son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich .
The Old Man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it .
There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due .
He knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to Niobe , the neatest ones to Concetta , and the laced ones to Romeo , Concetta's idiot brother .
The room filled with smoke , and Maggie's head throbbed with excitement and fatigue , but Stuart had such a happy , earnest look of proud possession on his face that Maggie couldn't bear to do anything to quench it .
In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I could do here at home to make some money , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things '' ? ?
`` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something '' , Maggie said .
`` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman's Exchange isn't taking baked goods any more and I can't leave the baby with Grandma because she isn't strong enough and the baby's too young to be put in a nursery '' .
`` Evadna Mae Evans said she didn't put a thing on her child but a flannel wrapper until it was nine months old '' .
`` Evadna Mae Evans got all her baby clothes from Best's Liliputian Bazaar in New York , and I'm sick and tired of hearing about Evadna Mae Evans '' .
`` Well now , Maggie , you don't have to snap at me '' , Eugenia said .
And Grandma isn't strong enough to take on something like that , and to tell you the truth neither am I '' .
She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but if you don't like any of those I can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you , if you think you can type well enough '' .
`` Oh , I'm sure I could do that '' , Maggie said .
`` Don't worry , I can get plenty more '' , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could .
`` And then whenever I have a minute I can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time .
And I can go back to my contests and be thinking while I'm doing the washing '' .
She said , `` Oh Eugenia , I wish ''
`` I wish I had three wishes '' , Maggie said .
The cold settled like a tangible pall over the Mile High City , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; ;
`` The only thing that worries me is how I'm going to prove it '' , Eugenia said .
They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
Hope wouldn't hear of it , and she took the heater back to Grandma's room , and Grandma took it back to Hope's room , and the two of them dragged it back and forth until Grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire .
Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said if Grandma wouldn't have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in .
He'd mentioned it , himself , at church and everybody seemed to have the idea that Tolley had left because Jenny had jilted him for Roy Robards .
Zion stayed to get my pin , but it'll be a cold day in June when I go back '' .
This -- trip of his had nothing to do with her consorting with tenants , and I am going to see that everybody at Mt. Pleasant understands that simple fact .
Wait for me , Laban , I'll be dressed in half a second '' ! !
They're not going to laugh at the Fairbrothers and Labans very long ! !
`` Make your confession to God , Kizzie dear , not to the congregation '' .
Returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from Jonathan Swift on his lips :
He questioned God's taking time to telegraph the message , but he felt better about Kizzie , and he took the sealed envelope from its pigeonhole , wondering why he had preserved it .
`` You've told God , Frank '' , he said .
There lay Grand Fair's Quinzaine , his own young parents' graves , but new life and promise for his sons , grandsons .
But this last time he drank not to Brace but `` To Tolley '' ! !
Mr. Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew of in the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing .
It didn't bother him for everybody from the blacksmith to the preacher to say , `` Howdy , Miss Jenny '' , adding a careless `` Roy '' , but it did her .
Simply call Mr. Whipsnade Oscar , and Dr. Dunne P.GA , and C'un Major Frank .
And if I ever hear you say ' Mist Laban ' again I'll scream .
He really hadn't meant to , he assured her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr. Robards .
But Mr. Robards' now , oh my yes , indeed , yes ! !
He called her `` the Mare '' much as Mrs. Whipsnade spoke of `` the Queen , God bless her '' .
He , with fifteen or twenty horses or mares or geldings or what-nots out there in the barn , was reverent only of `` the Mare '' , `` the Racin' Mare '' , the revolting Gunny .
Nerves , Mr. Robards said , just a nip anyway .
`` Stand back , Miss Jen , she's oneasy of your scarf '' .
Listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it .
Gunny symbolized so much that was unpleasant -- Tolley , the indifference with which the Fairbrothers and indeed the whole neighborhood now treated her and which she would die rather than acknowledge to her husband , his lack of understanding and sympathy in her present condition , her disgusting swollen stomach .
Human birth was no novelty to Mr. Robards .
Jenny's aversion to having Dr. Dunne , a former admirer , seemed silly to him , but he would humor her , get anybody she wanted , the best never being too good for her .
Jenny wished now that she had had Dr. Dunne , feeling that somehow he wouldn't have allowed the dear baby to turn into triplets .
There was something not nice about triplets , though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they hadn't been the son he wanted , saying , `` You don't see triplets trippin' down the pike ever' day , Miss Jen , hon .
Rhyme 'em up cute -- Arcilla , Flotilla ''
`` Kezziah , for Miss Kizzie '' , he suggested .
What about Royal Robards ? ?
`` Why don't you name him Jesus Christ ! !
Those elegant `` At Home '' cards she sent out , now she could wear her pretty clothes again , and had the house all trimmed up , hadn't brought many callers in two whole months .
Doc Dunne and Miss Sis had come .
So had Miss Shawnee Rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone to his Heavenly Rest last year , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to Quinzaine Spa this summer .
But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz couldn't have been very cordial , for she'd come back before she hardly had time to get there .
More and more , these days , she'd been driving that pretty little mare that looked like her , over to Tillie's and Nick's -- his own old square frame box on posts , chickens and cats and pups under the house , everybody friendly inside , making a to-do over the babies dressed like dollies .
It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa was all reserved for this summer and next , if you please , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs. Robards and the children .
He didn't tell Miss Jen , but she must have got word from the cook or nurse , who of course knew those Quinzaine nigs , and she really took a fit .
`` A swell party , send an invite to ever'body but them -- those folks you met at the Galt House , the ones I've got to know in this new Jockey Club affair , the whole dang neighborhood .
Zion was surprised when Roy's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
Her hesitation was only momentary and she hoped he didn't notice it , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on .
`` See for yourself , Miss Zion .
`` Them's the purtiest babes you ever did see , but Miss Jen gets mighty lonesome .
In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; ;
There had been supper parties and teas , fetes and little balls , Mama small and pretty and gay and Papa enormously jocular , enormously possessive , the sun around which the Blackwell planets revolved .
It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , `` Thank God your poor mother was spared this '' , and indeed it might be true that it had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles' hand , just because her `` poor mother '' was gone already and would never know .
But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta .
If Adelia had felt about someone as Henrietta felt about Charles , would she have run away with him ? ?
Before anything else , she would go to Doaty's grave with flowers from Doaty's forgotten garden .
Outside , the garden , the tame wilderness , yielded a patchwork bouquet of daisies , sweet william , scented stock and lady's bedstraw , which she tied with long grasses and took back to show Rosa , who was now stirring about the kitchen and haranguing Folly .
She sounded so exactly like Doaty that Henrietta obeyed her under the clear impression that she could either comply or stay home .
She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away .
Next to the Blackwells , Titus had owned the island most , and she and Adelia had often stood in front of him , silenced by his terrible years -- a scanty man with a thin beard and very deep-set blue eyes like a mariner , more aged than possible .
She said gently , `` Of course I remember you '' .
Only , this old man's connivance was even less to her taste than Selma Cotter's open censure .
Well , she had not come back to Great Island to be understood , praised or condemned .
He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer don't affect the tissues none '' , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence .
The children are eating , and Miss Blackwell's on her way somewheres '' .
-- You'll be visiting Miss Doaty , Ma'am '' ? ?
The woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own .
Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them ( how many things had lessened while she was gone away ) but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding '' seemed suddenly impossible .
The Momoyama family had come from Miyagi Prefecture , in the northeast of the main Japanese island of Honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious Ainu strain .
The Ainus were a primitive people , already living on the island before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia .
A pitiful few of them are left now , to subsist mainly on the tourist trade and to sing their ancient tribal chants , which have the same haunting sadness as the laments of the American Indians .
Most of them have been assimilated , but sometimes a man in Miyagi or Akita prefectures is much more hairy than the average Japanese , and occasionally a girl will be strikingly lovely , her coloring warmed and improved by a little of the tawny honey-in-the-sun tint of the invaders from the South .
She was taller than most Japanese girls , and had the exquisitely willowy form of the Japanese girl who is lucky enough to be tall .
she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted .
There were no depressingly serious cases : the ward doctor sometimes teamed up with the chaplain to serve as a marriage counselor -- sometimes the Navy sent people back to the States to preserve a marriage -- but mental health as a rule was very high .
Such as now , when she sat at a table in the coffee shop at the Officers' Club , having coffee and a hamburger to sustain her until dinnertime .
Ships from the West Coast rotated on six-month tours of duty with the Seventh Fleet , and Yokosuka was the Seventh Fleet's principal port for maintenance , upkeep and shore liberty .
if Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach .
He came through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried .
`` I don't believe I know you , and I can't understand your quaint brand of English -- it was meant to be English , wasn't it '' ? ?
You see , I thought -- I mean I really had no idea '' --
Then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very American gesture , and dropped into Navy slang .
Nobody had addressed her in broken English at any of those places , nobody had suggested that she wasn't American .
There are Spanish girls who look like Tommy Momoyama , brunettes with a Moorish hint of the Orient in their faces ; ;
there are beauties from the Balkan states who are similarly endowed , and -- back in the blessed United States -- they were regarded simply as pretty women .
Four little Japanese waitresses were murdering the English language at the counter -- Yuki Kobayashi happened to be one of them .
Everybody but Tommy seemed to think it was charming when they called , `` Bifutek-san '' ! !
For a steak sandwich , or `` Kohi Futotsu '' ! !
She told herself rebelliously , and with pride , I am an American ! !
But she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the Club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken English .
There was more to service in the Navy Nurse Corps than the hours in the ward .
Now there was raucous male singing from the Fleet Bar .
She promised that she would soon take a few day's leave and visit the uncle she had never seen , on the island of Oyajima -- which was not very far from Yokosuka .
Tommy , of course , had never heard of a kotowaza , or Japanese proverb , which says , `` Tanin yori miuchi '' , and is literally translated as `` Relatives are better than strangers '' .
But the beer hall riot in Subic had been unusual , too , and Walt Perry was convinced that Doc had started it through some expert tactics in rabble rousing .
There had never been a good reason for Doc Doolittle to grow up .
He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him .
The job security enjoyed by Doc Doolittle , and nearly all members of the Armed Forces , is a wonderful thing .
Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic .
This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring him there again , some day .
At Yokosuka he was restricted to the confines of the Base because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base .
There were two things he wanted to do : inspect one of the many caves that had been dug into the hills on the Naval Base , and visit an old shipmate .
After supper , Doc called Whitey Gresham , who was now a lieutenant and had a family .
`` I'll be there , but I'll walk '' , Doc said .
He threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the Petty Officers' Club .
There was swimming over at the Riverside Hotel , but his skin was so white he looked like the bottom of a frog .
`` You missed it '' , Buzz's voice said , `` You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us .
Strippers , but scrumptious , and Toodle Williams and her all-lesbian band '' .
`` Hi , Buzz '' , Owen said .
`` Tough '' , Buzz said , `` Listen , we're having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday .
Imagine a stag dinner with Toodle Williams '' .
Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he hadn't come to Reno for stag dinners .
`` Thanks '' , Owen said , `` but Friday is a long way off and anything can happen '' .
`` I'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice explained , `` And I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please '' .
`` I don't know much about them '' , Owen admitted , `` but I suppose they have their own religion and they probably resent outsiders coming in and telling them what to do and what not to do '' .
The more canvassing I do , the more I note how far most people are from their personal God '' .
I do this work all on my own , because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters .
I have the whole Pacific Northwest '' .
Mrs. Gertrude Parker drew back .
His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year's exemptions .
He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced .
Although it was only three o'clock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf .
The Golden Calf was dimly lit with shaded neon .
Owen was surprised to see Mrs. Gertrude Parker playing the one-arm bandits that were cunningly arranged by the entrance .
Incidentally , I'm pretty famous in these parts : I'm called The Wrangler '' .
He's my own horse , and what I collect from him I use on blackjack .
This Sparky can rack and single-foot and he's the fastest thing in Washoe County .
I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero .
I once trained a horse for Hoot Gibson , but nothing like Sparky .
Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars .
This proved conclusively that The Wrangler was a jinx , so he walked on down to Hurrays , an even more glorified gambling den than the Golden Calf .
When he looked in the back , Mrs. Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards .
He read a special announcement whereby Hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three A.M. starring Adele ( The Body ) Brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls .
`` We're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva '' , Buzz explained , still instigating .
`` We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel .
`` I'm allergic to Tahoe '' , Owen explained .
`` My name's Gisele '' , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch .
Alexander said , `` Answer me properly , Spencer '' .
Spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , `` There is nothing I want to say , Captain '' .
During the morning hours , it became clear that the arrest of Spencer was having no sobering effect upon the men of the Somers .
Those named in the Greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him .
Hostile glances were flashed at both Alexander and Gansevoort .
In your opinion , who is this E. Andrews on the ' certain ' list '' ? ?
There was a tap at the door and Oliver entered with the word that Heiser wished to see the Captain .
An African knife and battle-ax are at this moment being sharpened by McKinley and Green .
He was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with Gansevoort and Heiser behind him .
Adrien Deslonde hastened to Alexander's side .
And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey .
Their strategy was sound enough and , he reasoned , had been defeated only by Philip Spencer's unwillingness to sanction an idea he had not originated .
When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers .
One of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson .
Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and an hour later , with back turned , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon .
Wilson , shackled and snarling , was thrown with the other prisoners and was soon joined by Green , McKee and McKinley .
In the tiny cabin , Alexander met with Gansevoort , Heiser and Wales to speak and to listen .
Then we have informed a large number of our crew that when they reach the United States , they will be punished but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order .
`` That is extravagant language , Mr. Wales .
`` We are going to bring the Somers into New York harbor safe and sound '' .
`` Of course , I agree with the Captain '' , Gansevoort said thoughtfully , `` but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate .
Those of us present , the Perry brothers , Deslonde and the other midshipmen now have the responsibility of the Somers .
With all his heart he had loved the Navy and now he must act in accordance with the Navy's implacable laws .
Yes , he would bring the Somers safely into New York harbor but at a price .
He said , `` Captain , may I speak , please ? ?
Before God I swear I am innocent .
`` No , Cromwell , I did not find your name .
And in a sudden wave of painful clarity , Alexander recognized a kinship with Spencer .
There was good fortune and there was bad and Philip Spencer , in handcuffs and ankle irons , knew it to be a truth .
The red-haired captain , towering above the prisoner as a symbol of decency and authority , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer .
`` I am innocent , Captain '' , Cromwell said again .
`` Before God , Captain , I am innocent '' .
And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell .
No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , had seen it in Cromwell's hands while Spencer whispered explanations .
`` I thought '' , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching him geometry '' .
I thought he would ask us to leave because Rachel and I were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor .
He turned his surly , half-closed eyes toward us , stared for a second , then shouted in Yiddish , `` One , two , three '' ! !
The little boys shrilled out a Yiddish translation or interpretation of the Five Books of Moses , which they had previously chanted in Hebrew .
She said , `` Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around .
It was an impulse when she was here in Me'a She'arim -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel .
I said quietly , gaining nerve , ready to ask any question at all , no matter how intimate , ready to be rebuffed , `` Then why did she leave Israel ? ?
Then his son did something '' -- Rachel threw up her hands -- `` I don't know what , but something , to an official here -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned .
When I did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him .
Or maybe poling up the south fork of the Forked Deer River braving the wastes dumped in it ? ?
Maybe I saw him on a barge with a gang of Ethiopians poling it '' .
Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling ( unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch ) , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving .
And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
Like Mattie and the mayor up there gripping the microphone and Toonker Burkette back in his office yanking out teeth , like they all knew he would .
Or you could hope the parachute wouldn't open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which cannot admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I'm pregnant '' .
Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night .
And he can be on the way to Memphis , your Gratt Shafer can , and you discover you can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead .
It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you couldn't have Gratt Shafer ; ;
It dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that because Gratt Shafer was making you miserable , you were passing it down to him , to Gratt Shafer's substitute , that other guy .
And you wonder if that is why the little man lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year before he straightened out and moved to St. Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success .
The others , the ones in the stands , were spellbound , for hearing the mayor was for them like listening to a symphony was for sophisticated folks in New York City .
He was good and they knew that what he was doing for them he would do all over the United States some day .
While he talked you wouldn't trade being a West Tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it hadn't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat's ass .
She glanced at the man nodding beside her , a man with weather cracks furrowed into his lean cheeks , with powdery pale eyes reflecting all the droughts he had seen , reflecting the sky and the drought which must follow now in August -- yes , with eyes predicting the drought and here it was only June , only festival time again and thoughts of Gratt Shafer would not leave her .
He also drew precise crisp spots , which he sold to various literary and artistic journals , The New Yorker , for instance , or Esquire .
The book could be The Brothers Karamazov , but it would still have the same jacket illustration .
I remember once I did a jacket for Magpie Press ; ;
McKenzie , the art editor , took one look at my finished sketch and said , `` Nothing doing , Rufus .
I said , `` Mr. McKenzie , it is as authentic as careful research can make it '' .
They know from their researches into television and the movies that knights in the middle ages had beautiful flowing haircuts like Little Lord Fauntleroy , and only the villains had beards .
In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave him a sword instead of a pistol , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie .
he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` For Christ's sake , Donald , you've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two wouldn't have gone if I hadn't talked them into it .
I kept saying , `` If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint '' .
The night we first met , at one of Mrs. Monmouth's giant parties , he was wearing a brown cashmere jacket with silver buttons and a soft pink Viyella shirt ; ;
Life had included him in its `` Modern American Artists '' series and had photographed him at his studio in the East Sixties ; ;
We went into Mrs. Monmouth's library , which had low bookshelves all along the walls , and above them a Modigliani portrait , a Jackson Pollock twelve feet long , and a gorgeous Miro with a yellow background , that looked like an inscription from a Martian tomb .
The fireplace had tiles made for Mrs. Monmouth by Picasso himself .
`` I don't think I've reached the point , yet , where I can say I know everything I ought to know about the craft .
Besides , it's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna '' .
Ah , what a title for the exhibition : The Eye is All '' ! !
He teaches at the Manhattan School of Art '' .
I had studied with Burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street .
`` I'm also studying enameling with Hajime Iijima '' , he went on , `` and twice a week I go to a life class taught by Pendleton '' .
I went to a retrospective of his work when I was eighteen , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne's '' .
I've always admired him , and when I heard he was taking a few pupils , I went to him and joined his class '' .
In the Middle Ages , in the Renaissance , right up to the early nineteenth century , the painter was a giant in the world .
The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he didn't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning .
It was an awkward hour , but I didn't have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay a couple of hours later at the drawing board to finish up a job .
After a short time , both George and Donald joined the class with me so they wouldn't feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work .
Partly , it was because Pendleton himself wasn't what I anticipated .
If I am not to be Mrs. Salter I am nothing '' .
I love you , I hate you , I feel like killing you and myself , and in the same sequence I love you I think you're the most wonderful the most noble and so on and on , meanwhile eating a good breakfast and dinner and enjoying living .
`` I have these appointments in town for Saturday , and I'll probably spend Sunday with Dolly or the Thaxters '' .
It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days .
I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town .
I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon .
When I came back from church at noon Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
Even at a car's length I could sense that something was wrong , and so I followed her up to the turnaround in front of the house .
I , who until that day before had been Mrs. Salter's friend , her equal , was the servant now .
It was Dolly and Mrs. Thaxter who were calling Via , everybody .
And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait .
Sitting in the kitchen I recalled every word Mrs. Salter said that could have been a sign to me .
`` If I am not to be Mrs. Salter then I am nothing '' .
And when she returned from taking her guests back to New York she had said , `` All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that When they know the truth will they drop away from me , will I become a nothing '' ? ?
And then I remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to Rome I had heard her boast , over and over again , `` On the boat people liked me for myself '' .
I assumed it was one of those hour-long conversations with Dolly or Constance , she comfortable in bed .
When a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still cannot account for .
Or what was it that , before Via , Sonny , Walter and all , I began almost to dance with shuddering and cry out , `` I knew she'd do it ! !
At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ? ?
At the time I was filled with self-pity at this separation , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry .
In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne .
No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened .
But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid .
Yes , I had cried out that I knew she'd do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt .
At rest with my darling Ellen , the first Mrs. Salter .
Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had Ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning .
I knelt , just for decency I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` Our Father which Art in Heaven '' And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief .
Together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey .
Again I felt impelled to kneel , and reached back and pulled Via down .
A nice bachelor apartment in a place called the Lancaster Arms '' .
`` And then I had another place farther downtown I used as a studio '' .
I think I was what you might call a convivial man , and yet it was when I was alone in my studio , doing my work , that I really felt alive .
My name's Carla Caneli .
`` I'll get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla '' .
They looked at the ruins of the old Roman wall on the lower Via Veneto , then they went to the Farnese Gardens .
And when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto .
He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps .
She might like to take him to St. Peter's .
You could take me to St. Peter's '' .
Then he thought of those Old Testament figures on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel .
Or a Protestant , or one of those amusing dogmatic atheists , or a strict orthodox Communist .
It seemed to him that if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them , it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla .
`` Since we're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , he said , `` I think I'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
And he waited for her to say , `` Oh , no , I can do it , Sam .
Signora Ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked Sam about Canada , having a special interest .
The old woman had a nephew from North Italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to Canada to work on the railway .
And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope .
Just as thousands that day in Portugal had seen the sun dancing in the sky , he had seen the same thing later in his own garden , and she turned to Agnese for confirmation .
The Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world .
There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that when the Pope died it was like the end of a regime in Rome .
Did Signor Raymond understand ? ?
Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla's eye .
Devout , orthodox and plain like a family she might meet in Brooklyn or Malta or Ireland .
But Carla's eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave her a look of warmth and happiness .
And Carla , watching in wonder , turned to Sam .
But one night Dookiyoon moved in the direction of the women's lodge , where Shades of Night had gone to purify herself .
Early Spring came from her bed , from beside her half-drunk husband , Walitzee , and stood at the entrance way to her lodge hearing the mild commotion , the sound of hushed voices .
Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , simply standing without speaking or moving while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her .
But the girl said only , `` Tell him I am here , that I have come '' .
And it was not Pile of Clouds she meant .
But now with real anger at last , something proud and indignant , Early Spring stood like a she wolf before her den and cried , `` I will not shriek at you ! !
But she did not move , taking the words and the sticks in that old defiance of her extreme youth until suddenly Pile of Clouds came howling among them , swinging a great bullhide whip .
And Early Spring seized the whip and said :
She said to him , her father , `` How was I begotten , in pain or joy ? ?
Suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard Pile of Clouds say in his high , quavering voice :
And a very young one , Swan Necklace , tried to emulate them and followed timidly .
And the suspicious , envenomed eyes of Pile of Clouds .
And those of Early Spring , haunted and now full of hurt and envy .
The sound rose on the other side of the hills , vanished and rose again and he could imagine the mad , disheveled hoofs of the Appaloosas , horses the white men once had called the Dogs of Hell .
If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days .
She was thinking of Paul a few weeks ago , in the Easter holidays , with her at one of those awful Friday Evening Dancing Class parties her mother had made her attend .
I wish I were older or younger , Julia Bentley thought .
George Rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- Millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold .
Perhaps George Rawlings would be better off dead .
He was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at City Hall .
He'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy .
`` I -- I was just leaving here , Julie .
He imagined Sam's voice : `` George , what the hell goes on '' ? ?
We'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore '' , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father's tone with servants .
`` I wish I didn't have to go back to school '' , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York .
`` I wish I wasn't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew '' He stopped speaking .
Will you look at George Rawlings ! !
`` No , Millie , I'm home .
But I thought maybe Tony Elliott could pinch-hit for me .
A strange relationship between Joan Fulbright and himself .
It was Jim's `` little '' sister Myra , the unreliable , irresponsible , forever flyaway , Myra .
She's a year older than I am , Lucy told herself .
`` Come , come '' , Jim said , jollying Lucy a little .
Leaving Cathy with them , Myra had gone out to the Coast for a supposedly brief visit ; ;
Lucy suspected that Myra would never have come home if Gregg , Myra's husband , hadn't gone out to fetch her .
On the defensive , he added , `` I wish you'd think what it must be like for her to be without Greg , to be a new widow , a young widow '' .
It seemed to Lucy that all their married life , she and Jim had been doing nothing but rescue his sister from the constant crises that were her way of life .
But Cathy was Myra's responsibility , not hers .
`` Don't yell at Susan '' , Lucy said .
`` Now , now '' , Lucy said , approaching Susan with a handkerchief , mopping skillfully .
Jim groaned , but he lifted Susan's suitcase and said , in a gentler tone , `` Sure -- the entire thousand .
And when you get back from Grandma's , Cathy will be here to play with you .
`` No '' , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect .
And at this point , Lucy thought , there should be a lecture on little cousins' sharing dolls -- but she could sympathize with Susan ; ;
She suspected that Cathy had been competing with Susan for attention that she had never had .
When the car , with Susan's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust .
There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze .
since Myra had always put most of Greg's money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed .
The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost : Greg's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes .
Myra dropped Cathy this morning , and Jim picked Cathy up and left Susan a few hours ago .
But Myra was the merriest widow I ever saw '' .
On her way to the airport , on her way to Paris -- you bet , Lucy said to herself .
Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left with her for good ? ?
`` You mean once Myra gets to Paris '' ? ?
Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I don't know '' ? ?
Again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , `` I guess I do .
Just before Myra left -- She was saying good-by to Cathy , and she didn't realize I was near '' .
`` Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say , ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I'll send you a wonderful present from Paris ' '' .
Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself '' ! !
`` And that's what I'm going to tell Jim '' .
For eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
He was a knight of the Round Table , `` Sir Quintus the Brave '' , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses .
A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad .
It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America .
When you get back I'll probly be swimming better than Victoria .
She called him `` Stuck-up -- that's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up '' .
Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
`` Mister Big Britches , aren't you '' ? ?
`` I'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth .
`` If I was your mama , I'd wop your tail off '' .
Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I'm big '' .
`` His real name's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers .
That meant `` Mama wants you Quint .
See you around , Mister Squint '' .
Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love .
Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' '' ? ?
Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; ;
that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia .
And `` What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? ?
He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it .
Like Willie Mays in the outfield .
But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints .
`` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib .
`` Your Daddy's in San Francisco '' , she told them .
When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon's golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community .
Not that Linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than John Cooper would .
Hadn't Linda been a perfect wife to Bobbie , who was the least bit of a disappointment all these years ? ?
Wasn't John Cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? ?
And wasn't John's wife , Edythe , even more appalling , if possible ? ?
Didn't John Cooper , after all this time , deserve something better of life ? ?
Everybody knew that John Cooper had married Edythe on the rebound .
`` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen '' , Mousie Chandler said to Linda Stuart .
Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh .
For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
John-and-Linda were at Longue Vue last night ; ;
First , it came out after Mr. Cooper's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that John and his mother weren't rich any more .
And then there was Linda's engagement to Bobbie Evans .
There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie wasn't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John .
He was a bright and handsome young man from New York , who worked for the same steel company as John did .
Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers .
It wasn't even John and Edythe .
It was simply Poor John .
Mousie Chandler had been to school with her someplace near Baltimore and tried to explain rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at Horne's .
`` Well , you shouldn't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said .
She giggled during the ceremony , and Mousie Chandler , who was one of Linda's bridesmaids , said John glared black as death at her .
She didn't have a bad shape when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue , but her bathing suits were far from smart .
And you didn't see her much at Longue Vue or anywhere , for John had drifted away from the gang .
Others thought he couldn't stand seeing Linda , Mrs. Bobbie Evans , still so beautiful , so much in command of everything .
John sold the big old place in Sewickley and bought a smaller house in Fox Chapel .
Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John's first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe .
But the continuing charm of the other children -- Sally in 1940 and Jack in 1944 -- and all John's success at his work only made Edythe's dizziness and general uselessness more glaring .
She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' .
Being an intelligent man , John must have guessed what everyone thought about Edythe , but he never let on by so much as a brave smile .
The Coopers saw Bobbie and Linda socially , but no more than was necessary .
Bobbie had been successful , too , though he didn't match John's pace , and after all he didn't need to , with all the Stuart money .
He and Linda settled down to being social leaders , and Linda managed to look a little more beautiful each year .
And then came the hairpin turn , the smashed Jaguar and Linda , mourning alone and lovely .
`` Don't think Linda couldn't have got John back any time , if she'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
Linda Evans felt more wretched than she had ever dreamed Bobbie's death could move her to feeling .
It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled at the decision as at the brink of a cold stream .
It might be rough on Edythe at first , but Linda and John between them could make a settlement handsome enough to soothe her , to send her back to Cleveland or anywhere .
And Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even , since she and Bobbie had had none of their own .
Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead .
Alloy steels and regular steels had different sales departments at Smith & MacIsaacs , where John and Bobbie both worked .
So when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie .
For Linda knew how to help her husband , not just the Stuart-family contacts but also the little dinners for Reuben Lovejoy .
She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job .
Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him .
Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened .
He was a director of S. & M. and must have been in on the decision .
But jolly old Uncle Donald would tell her no more than that Bobbie had certainly been considered for the job , but there were factors in a large company which outsiders and even some insiders couldn't understand .
He didn't tell her of the long board meeting where Bobbie and John were weighed one against the other .
`` I'm behind John Cooper '' , Mr. Lovejoy said finally .
`` Now , I believe Poor John'll work just a little harder .
Uncle Donald Murkland found himself nodding agreement too .
After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces .
The job at Funk wasn't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda's family .
In some ways it was worth being out the money -- just knowing I was no longer obligated to Nadine ! !
We're at Ken Thom's apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat ! !
Old Mr. Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply can't afford to get Ken mad at us '' --
`` I can't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all .
Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents didn't care enough to leave a party ? ?
`` That's Mrs. Roberts again '' , I said .
I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I'd be getting on home .
`` Wally's drunk -- I'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I don't want Shirley to see him like this .
But then I looked at Shirley and thought that I might as well -- the child needed her sleep , and Heaven knew what kind of a mess it would be , with Wally coming home drunk .
So I told her Mrs. Roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment .
After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited .
Nadine's , shrill with anger -- Wally's loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two .
I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him .
I grabbed her arm and she turned on me and for a scared second I thought that maybe Wally was right , and she was crazy .
He insulted Ken Thom '' ! !
`` Well then , I'll get out '' -- But she looked uncertain .
Thankful I wasn't Nadine .
In the afternoon Nadine and Wally came over with Francie .
Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
Mr. Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him .
`` I thought I'd smooth things over through Ken '' , Wally said miserably .
And I was plastered and I blew my stack '' --
But I couldn't help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved .
Little by little , during the week , Chris and I discovered the crazy unbelievable way Nadine and Wally had lived .
`` That isn't like you , Janice '' , Chris said uncomfortably .
At least we'll eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away .
While I worked , Nadine sat and cried .
But it couldn't go on forever -- A couple of weeks , Chris had said .
I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air .
But I swear to you from the moment I opened my eyes , I knew it was going to be a bad day .
For the thousandth time , I wished I'd chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession .
Actually , I shouldn't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror .
Maybe I didn't see as much of Gladdy as I'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home .
At least , we were together and we had Mrs. Hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of Gladdy than Mrs. Hodges was .
But I mustn't start on Alice .
If she'd kept on as she'd been going , the story I'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow
Oh , I knew that I couldn't give myself all the credit for her decision .
I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too .
If she and Pete were really getting serious , I'd have to do some hard thinking .
Should I tell him the truth about Alice ? ?
Did he have a right to know the secret I'd kept from Gladdy all these years ? ?
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview .
Two interns and Dick Ishii , the other resident .
I'm Chief of Medicine here and this morning would start like all others , with me taking the boys on the rounds .
Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he'd meet us there .
Alice But this woman's name was Rose Bancroft ! !
Yes , Rose Bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism .
No , no it was an unfortunate resemblance , that was all it was , and I turned to Dick , forcing myself to put my disquiet out of my mind .
Turning toward the patient again , I -- I can't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick .
`` Now , Miss -- or is it Mrs. Bancroft '' ? ?
I told Miss Groggins to move her down the hall where we had an examining table .
`` Better do a Papanicolaou '' , I told Pete .
It was only a few moments before Miss Groggins had her in the proper position for a vaginal , but I couldn't see anything wrong on gross examination .
That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind .
Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again .
On my way to the elevator , I ran into Pete .
`` Well '' -- I didn't -- I didn't ever want to see that woman again .
We'll do a D. and C. and get her permission for a hysterectomy .
We'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar .
`` I've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , I said .
`` You haven't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could .
`` I don't know what you heard that would make you think so , but I assure you I don't even know myself , so how can you be so sure ? ?
Guess I've changed , haven't I ? ?
As for coming back here -- well , I'll tell you the truth , I didn't even know where I was when I came to .
The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego '' --
`` I never asked you for any favors , Joe '' , she went on , `` but I'm asking one now .
No , I want out , Joe '' ! !
Perhaps if I took off the aqua-lung I could swim better , love my woman better .
It was when I packed up what duds I had and went to Paris .
Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery .
I was twenty-one back then , in the army , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main .
It was a Saturday evening in April with a mist-like rain , and I was a little high on the good taste of life .
In less than an hour I had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the Champs Elysees in a fresh uniform .
I felt like a Hun in Rome .
There were some sweet machines other than women : an old Bugatti , a lean Farina coachwork on an American chassis , a Swallow , a type A40-AjK Mercedes and lots more .
There was the Arc de Triomphe and the Tour d'Eiffel -- I was no yokel , but I was young , and this was Paris ! !
I had champagne at Maxim's , then went into a cafe called the Jour et Nuit to ask the way to Montmartre .
I made the mistake of going to the Jour et Nuit .
The place was busy but I didn't feel like a Hun .
I had part of a bottle of French beer called Panther Pils ( so help me ) , then switched to Tuborg .
After a few hours , Life hadn't showed , and I was crocked .
The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in Paris on Sunday morning ? ?
All that day and Monday I drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space .
I read the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer .
I felt better Tuesday evening when I woke up .
My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled to this Paris idea as a flop on top of all my others .
I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until I found a park , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky .
Hardly glancing at her , I smiled a bleak one which said , Thanks , baby , but I'd rather be alone .
`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , I observed profoundly , adding , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' .
I felt my frozen sad face crumble , and I grinned a silly one I couldn't have helped .
Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' ? ?
Anyway , I pulled a bottle of Remy Martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her .
`` I'm sorry I haven't got a glass '' , I said .
We undressed and made love with the comfortable acceptance I had once known with Valery .
But I smelled the coffee , and thinking , What the hell , live dangerously , I decided I would scald my worries away .
Her name was Suzanne , and mine Stephen .
To my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : `` Shall we go to the Louvre today '' ? ?
We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre .
Two letters had arrived for Miss Theresa Stubblefield : she put them in her bag .
She would not stop to read them in American Express , as many were doing , sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street .
This was her first day in Rome and it was June .
Pictures in old Latin books returned to her : the Appian Way Today , the Colosseum , the Arch of Constantine .
Moreover , nursing various Stubblefields -- her aunt , then her mother , then her father -- through their lengthy illnesses ( everybody could tell you the Stubblefields were always sick ) , Theresa had had a chance to read quite a lot .
England , France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy had all been rendered for her time and again , and between the prescribed hours of pills and tonics , she had conceived a dreamy passion by lamplight , to see all these places with her own eyes .
The very night after her father's funeral she had thought , though never admitted to a soul : Now I can go .
Shoals of tourists went by her in national groups -- English school girls in blue uniforms , German boys with cameras attached , smartly dressed Americans looking in shop windows .
The Spanish Steps .
In Rome , all over Europe , she intended to move very slowly indeed .
Poor Cousin Elec , she thought , tears rising to sting in the sun , but why couldn't he have arranged to live through the summer ? ?
Her Cousin Emma Carraway had written it , in her loose high old lady's script -- t's carefully crossed , but l's inclined to wobble like an old car on the downward slope .
Cousin Emma had simply put Miss Theresa Stubblefield , Rome , Italy , on the envelope , had walked up to the post office in Tuxapoka , Alabama , and mailed it with as much confidence as if it had been a birthday card to her next-door neighbor .
Somebody had scrawled American Express , Piazza di Spagna ? ?
, across the envelope , and now Theresa had it , all as easily as if she had been the President of the Republic or the Pope .
Inside were all the things they thought she ought to know concerning the last illness , death , and burial of Cousin Alexander Carraway .
Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields in Tuxapoka from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago .
Two days before he was taken sick , Cousin Elec was out worrying about what too much rain might do to his sweetpeas , and Cousin Elec had always preserved in the top drawer of his secretary a mother-of-pearl paper knife which Theresa had coveted as a child and which he had promised she could have when he died .
This letter would have got to me if she hadn't even put Rome , Italy , on it .
But alas George , when he had written , had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec's funeral .
A life of gentility and principle such as Cousin Elec had lived had to be known at first hand .
Theresa had seen him through the right college , into the right fraternity , and though pursued by various girls and various mammas of girls , safely married to the right sort , however much in the early years of that match his wife , Anne , had not seemed to understand poor George .
Could it just be , Theresa wondered , that Anne had understood only too well , and that George all along was extraordinary only in the degree to which he was dull ? ?
As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember at the moment about him ( except his paper knife ) was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George .
There they all did their uttermost to help Cousin Elec get a cramp out of his foot .
They all surrounded him , the family circle , Theresa and George as solemn as if they were watching the cat have kittens , and Cousin Emma running back and forth with a kettle of hot water which she poured steaming into a white enamelled pan .
`` I just hope this happens to you someday '' , said Cousin Elec , who was not at his best .
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' , George said .
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' .
Now , here they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair .
Robbie and Beryl tried their best to persuade her to come and stay with them , and Anne and I have told her she's more than welcome here , but I think she feels that she might be an imposition , especially as long as our Rosie is still in high school .
The other possibility is to make arrangements for her to let out one or two of the rooms to some teacher of good family or one of those solitary old ladies that Tuxapoka is populated with -- Miss Edna Whittaker , for example .
Theresa Stubblefield , still holding the family letters in one hand , realized that her whole trip to Europe was viewed in family circles as an interlude between Cousin Elec's death and `` doing something '' about Cousin Emma .
They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September .
Of course , it wasn't Anne and George's fault that one family crisis seemed to follow another , and weren't they always emphasizing that they really didn't know what they would do without Theresa ? ?
It never registered with them that I had time to read all of Balzac , Dickens , and Stendhal while Papa was dying , not to mention everything in the city library after Mother's operation .
It would have been exactly the same to them if I had read through all twenty-six volumes of Elsie Dinsmore .
I knew it as surely as everybody in Westfield -- that Lucille was a husband stealer .
And I've been told that just about every town , no matter what its size , has its Lucille Warren .
Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody'd ever bothered to tell me that .
They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission .
They were good-living religious people , and I can truthfully say I never heard them spread any gossip about anybody .
Even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren , I know they wouldn't have dreamed of saying it in front of me .
And so I was really upset the first time I discovered that my boy friend Johnnie was seeing Mrs. Warren .
Much as I love you -- well , a guy's a guy and Lucille's willing to -- to come across .
Honest , kitten , that's all it is -- I don't even like Lucille much '' .
I guess it was at that moment that I realized what I was up against in the person of Lucille Warren .
My love for Johnnie was young and clean -- how could I possibly compete with a woman like that , who didn't hesitate to use her sex .
It was a vivid , sharp February morning that Johnnie first made his appearance in my back yard , bringing some stuff Dad had ordered .
I wasn't in the habit of batting my eyes at delivery men , but the moment I saw Johnnie , I knew he was different .
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him .
I guess she was between affairs or something , but anyway , she had set her sights on Johnnie , my Johnnie .
A man had to have his release -- at least that's what the boys used to say in high school -- and I wasn't providing it for Johnnie .
`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and won't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold '' .
`` Or I could visit Lucille Warren '' .
Johnnie and I had been innocent in our love , and that was the way I wanted to keep it .
So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 .
I was desperate to hold him , to give him whatever in this world he wanted or needed , and to keep him from the clutches of Lucille Warren .
And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered .
And I snuggled closer to the man I loved .
I had always resisted the passes made at me by other kids , and many times I had thought about my love for Johnnie who , being thirty , brought a maturity to love that the kids around town could know nothing about .
I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise to remain pure until I was married .
And if I could contribute to that , I'd do it .
I'd never even petted with a boy , and after I met Johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him .
He was plenty attentive , all right , but he behaved like a gentleman , and I figured that , emotionally , I was closer to his age than to my own eighteen and a half .
And hadn't I rescued him from Lucille Warren ? ?
After all , Lucille Warren was a husband-stealer from way back .
But I'd been a good girl and now God was blessing me with the gift of this magnificent man and the wondrous love we shared .
From the entire eastern half of the nation they'd be coming , members of the Young Christians' League , and I'd been chosen to represent our chapter .
I'd been seeing Johnnie almost a year now , but I still didn't want to leave him for five whole days .
I hadn't been doing as much work as I used to in Westfield and I felt funny about that and wanted to work harder than ever .
So I went to Boston .
The first meeting was held in Faneuil Hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states .
My cousin Alma , at whose home I was staying during the convention , introduced me to a group of young people from Rhode Island .
`` Well , I should find Alma '' -- I began .
But when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale , I enjoyed it .
Of course I enjoyed 'most anything if I did it with Johnnie .
`` I don't see Alma anywhere '' , I said .
`` I -- I don't think so , Ronald .
Strange faces , most of them , and I wasn't even sure all of them had come from the League meeting .
`` You share a refrigerator '' , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the `` curving veranda '' between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four .
It was still raining , and Mrs. Kirby's cottages bloomed through the gray haze like the names they bore , vivid blue and green and magenta .
He had loved and lost Vivian Wayne to somebody else , had watched her marry the somebody else , and had caught a bear of a cold by kissing the bride good-by forever , which was really piling it on .
From now on , his was going to be a man's world : the North Woods , duck blinds at dawning , beer and poker and male secretaries .
He looked up to see Mrs. Kirby , awesome in a black-and-yellow polka-dotted slicker , bearing down on him .
He leafed through the light reading provided by Mrs. Kirby for her guests : four separate adventures of the Bobbsey Twins ( At the Seashore , At the Mountains , On the Farm , and In Danger ) and several agricultural bulletins on the treatment of hoof-and-mouth disease in cattle , hideously illustrated .
His first thought was that Mrs. Kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ;
Everything being the sweater , a lipstick case , and a squirt bottle of Kissin' Kare pink hand lotion .
Not that he had supposed , considering the evidence , that he was sharing this refrigerator with a member of the Beach Patrol .
He scrawled `` Sorry '' across the bottom of the note and then , against his better judgment , added : `` Don't you eat '' ? ?
It was Mrs. Kirby , making her toilsome way along the veranda , laden with a clattery collection of mops , brushes , and pails .
He could hear Mrs. Kirby now , warning her pale guest against sunburn .
Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done him no good .
The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby's varicolored properties .
He could not imagine a flower's being brave enough to grow beside Peony , Larkspur , and the rest .
`` It's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
He stuck his head in Mrs. Kirby's little rental office .
He didn't know what was so tough about Vivian's world , slopping around Nassau with what's-his-name .
`` That Mrs. Kirby ! !
There are two things here about Surviving in the Wilderness , and a book called ' Tom Swift and His Speedy Canoe ' ; ;
Eddie Lee , Riverside's redheaded playing manager , ran after the ball but it rolled past him .
Phil spun around and made an accurate throw into Mike Deegan's hands on third base .
He came into the bag with his body and Mike Deegan brought the ball down full in his face .
But Mike Deegan was boiling mad now .
This so infuriated Deegan that he spun around and said : `` I'll get that little bastard .
So help me God , I'll get him '' .
Phil Rossoff said : `` Why don't you leave him alone '' ? ?
`` Mind your own goddamn business '' , Mike Deegan said .
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder's head .
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench .
The Anniston manager was coming over to the Riverside dugout .
Eddie Lee moved over to Mike Deegan's side .
The Anniston manager came right up to the dugout in front of Mike .
`` For God's sake '' , Mike said , waving the manager away .
The Anniston manager looked at Eddie Lee .
The game started again and in the eighth inning Mike Deegan came up to bat .
In the Riverside dugout Frankie Ricco , shortstop , whispered into Phil's ear : `` There's gonna be a fight '' .
The pitcher tossed his glove away and came towards Mike Deegan .
Phil Rossoff and two other Riverside players did not go out on the field when the fighting started .
After the game , Phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when Mike Deegan came in .
`` It's a helluva thing '' , Mike said , looking at Phil , `` when a guy's own team-mate won't come out and help him in a fight '' .
Frankie Ricco sat down on the bench near Phil .
Mike had a good two inches over Phil and Phil had to look up into Mike's face .
Phil turned away and opened his locker , and then he heard Mike Deegan say : `` You're yellow , Rossoff '' ! !
But before anything could happen Frankie Ricco was between them and Eddie Lee had come into the dressing room .
Dazed , Phil said : `` I don't get it .
Phil turned and left the room , hearing Eddie say : `` Someday you'll see I was right '' .
Outside in the dressing room , Frankie Ricco sat on the bench dressed in his street clothes .
Then Frankie said : `` What are you gonna do '' ? ?
`` Talk to Whitey Jackson '' .
When he was twelve he took to reading St. Augustine and Aquinas , then Lao-tse , Confucius , Mencius , Suzuki , Hindu tomes by endless Krishnaists and numerous socio-archaeological papers .
For his birthday , because Richard had seen them in a store and asked for them , his mother bought him the Zend-Avesta and a little image of the Indian god , Acala .
And one day , on her own , his mother came home with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy .
At dinner one night , when he was fourteen , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' .
Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Don't speak to your father like that , Richard '' .
Although he still didn't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies .
Richard was a solitary student in New York and acquired , in his remoteness , a thorough if bookish knowledge of Asian lore , literature , life , politics and history .
He was awarded a fellowship to continue his studies in Tokyo and he packed up his clothes , the biwa upon which he had been practicing and his image of Acala , and left to spend a week at home before leaving the country .
`` Do you still have The Book of the Dead '' ? ?
She asked him and , laughing , she added , `` I was nervous about buying a book with a title like that , but I knew you'd like it '' .
As for The Book of the Dead , it along with his other books on religion had been incarcerated in a furnace in the basement of the building in which he had lived in New York .
Richard left America with his clothes , his biwa and his image of Acala and , on the freighter which took him to Japan , he plucked at the biwa , trying to make the sounds he wrought resemble an ancient Japanese tune he had once heard .
He stole from his cabin late that night and crept out into a gusty North Pacific wind and dropped the biwa into the water .
In Tokyo Richard took up a life similar to that which he had lived in New York , except that he had replaced his biwa with a friend .
An American student named Charlotte Adams had refused to take notice of his evident aversion to people and had at last succeeded in getting him to talk to her .
In Charlotte , Richard saw a frankness and a zest for doing things which , after a fashion , he envied .
At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was at Ryusenji today .
Three of the four persons present , all foreign students in Tokyo , had been playing a game of judging popular Japanese foods by the In and Out system , an equation in which Zen philosophy was used as the modifier .
Sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested , because it was too far Out to stay Out , even if it was a little pretentious .
Asked a red-haired girl named Ceecee Witter .
`` Well I was able to do it '' , Charlotte said with no sign of irritation .
Sam , I thought you knew everything about Tokyo .
`` I've heard about it '' , Samuel Burns said .
`` There's a little place there called Lovers Mound dedicated to Gompachi and Komurasaki '' .
`` Yes , a little parkish place '' , Charlotte said , and concluded , `` Anyhow , it's all very nice .
And the man who brought sweet potatoes into Kanto is buried there , next to a beautiful seated statue of Fudo .
`` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns .
`` And your golden god '' , said Samuel Burns , `` probably went right home and poured himself into a boiling bath .
`` But the point is '' , Charlotte said , `` there he was , freezing , naked in a little stream of water at Ryusenji , all in worship of Fudo , the god of fire '' .
Fudo , the god of wisdom , was also thought of as the Japanese version of Acala .
That night , after leaving Charlotte's apartment , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room .
When he at last did go to his room , he couldn't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of Acala , thinking first of Charlotte's tale of the man at Ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible Pacific waters .
And the next morning , not sure of why he went , he took the train to Fudomae and walked to Ryusenji .
The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard's eyes were caught by the Fudo's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and when I looked again down the furrow , the snake was there .
I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I'd had as a child whenever I saw one , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful .
You beauty , I said , I couldn't kill you .
I had killed snakes before , when I was younger , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die .
I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make .
The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake .
Stop it , I shouted , but the lumbering and mighty tractor roared on , above anything I could say .
I stopped the tractor and I shouted down to the boy , and I knew he could hear me , for the morning was clear and still , but he did not even hesitate in that brutal , murdering dance .
I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and halt , if I could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late .
My head began to ache , and the fumes of the tractor began to bother my eyes , and I hated the job suddenly , and I thought , there are only moments when one sees beautiful things , and these are soon crushed , or they vanish .
The snake was hideous , and I remembered , even then , the cool , bright fire of it only a little while before , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life .
I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that it was truly dead , so that I would not have to kill it .
And then it moved a little more , and I knew the snake was dying , and I would have to kill it there .
I took the broken length of it around the tractor and I took one of the wrenches from the tool-kit and I struck its head , not looking at it , to kill it at last , for it could never live .
I wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do .
Tax worries , production worries , personnel worries , and the letter from Hanford College , his own alma mater , a real snapper .
This was the letter which would or would not enroll his son , David , in Hanford .
But he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 .
Besides , Cady Partlow knew he wasn't the old-grad-type .
Look at Pete Alcorn , who hadn't missed a Hanford ball game in fifteen years .
Hanford College , Little Ivy League , had no room for football players with low grades .
Good solid B average with a sprinkling of A's in math and science .
Mr. Partlow could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford .
`` In response to your letter , I can in good conscience recommend my son , David , in the field of leadership '' .
He stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for Hanford College .
That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ? ?
He finished with a flurry of good wishes to Hanford College and signed the letter .
Then he met the grave eyes of his wife , Anne , from the photograph next to David's .
After all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of Partlow Products .
Half of it was natural , half was Smith College .
`` You look like you just heard a real gasser , Mr. Partlow '' .
`` That's a fact , Mr. Partlow .
`` Oh '' , said Mr. Partlow , `` that's fine , Tom .
He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
`` Can I have the car , Dad '' ? ?
Carefully he put down his steak knife and said loudly , `` Mr. Chairman '' ! !
`` Hear anything from Hanford yet , Dad '' ? ?
Charles Burke got turned down by Dartmouth and he is a straight-A student '' .
Hanford College hasn't decided on Dave's application yet .
`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days .
He just took over the week Bill Daley was in the state basketball play-off '' .
Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection for the bottom of the fishpond six years ago ! !
`` But he plays bass with Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' ! !
Even in that he never solos like Jack on guitar or Rich on sax .
Don't worry , Cady , he'll be back in the Beethoven fold by next year '' .
But I refuse to be brutally honest and mention Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' .
`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , he said .
`` It's Dave who is applying to Hanford College .
For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back .
With the most casual and relaxed manner in the world , Dolores led Anthea to the bedroom .
She was talking about him that time , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` Afterwards Martin said he was sorry .
`` It's a little contest Martin and I have '' , she would begin gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course .
With her eyes Dolores dared him for the truth , ready to begin : It's a little contest --
They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , bobbing up and down from the table so that talk was impossible .
Well , Martin thought , That'll save .
General Hershey's draft and Doc Eddyman and Cap were responsible for his first eminence , but Fearless Freddy Bryan could take credit , if he cared to ( and he did ) , for the second time .
Freddy needed a job , having been detached from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing by Gerry , and it was up to Arthur Willis to provide him with one .
Mr. Willis bought Zenith Plastic Products , a skeleton corporation of sorts which had undergone many vicissitudes and whose principal assets were a couple of electronics plants on Long Island engaged in working out government contracts , and installed Freddy in an executive position .
Probably Mr. Willis was influenced toward deeper involvement by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren .
Gerry began to aid Freddy with her father , prodded , no doubt , by Joan's open contempt for Freddy and William's irritating competency .
Whatever the reasons , Willis and Bryan started expanding Zenith .
Since they were hunting for national defense contracts , Adam Herberet , a man of surprising resources , entered the combination as a silent partner because of his political connections .
The Allstates Auto Company , a medium-sized firm which manufactured four-wheel-drive vehicles and other off-road equipment , had recently constructed an over-large , modern plant in a burst of misguided optimism .
With Herberet's blessing , he was convinced that Allstates' Wisconsin folly would be ideal for conversion to airplane sub-assembly , tanks , missiles or ordnance of some kind .
Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; ;
Mr. Willis , eager to have him allied with the family , wanted advice beyond the confines of his field , and William set out on a serious study of the situation , including trips to Wisconsin and Washington .
I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him with me to Allstates .
Besides that , I'm acquainted more or less with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the Air Force .
I think Adam Herberet is guilty of being too hopeful and better informed on defense financing than on the technical side .
He assures me he has people to handle the money raising , and Ham Richert , my lawyer , says the legal aspects of the wedding of Zenith and Allstates are no problem .
I wish you wouldn't tell Freddy I'm lukewarm ; ;
I'm most grateful to you , so grateful I wish you were my principal aide instead of Freddy '' .
Not to William's surprise , Freddy , Adam and Hamilton Richert prevailed ; ;
allied to them was Gerry , devoting much time to swaying her father , and Joan dismissed all thought of the project and William was unwilling to interfere further .
Zenith absorbed Allstates , stock transfers were arranged , and Freddy became president of the hyphenated combination .
Through Jack Hamrick , William fell into the world of automobile promotion and got several accounts for Shoals and Clay .
Freddy's backing dropped away from him and Mr. Willis was forced to make up the deficit .
Once more Willis summoned William .
His recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of A-Z's useless Wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of Hamrick's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called Ticonderoga Motors had given him an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it .
Initially , Hamrick's reaction to A-Z going into the passenger car market was discouraging .
If A-Z could buy Ticonderoga cheaply and use their presses and dies and other equipment , if William could hit precisely the right promotion note , if the money hurdle was not insurmountable .
Taking Hamrick with him , William went to Mr. Willis .
You're -- you're Arthur Willis .
At the meeting , attended by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , with Mr. Willis presiding , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet .
`` Oh , my God '' , Ham Richert said , `` a little child shall lead them .
Move over , General Motors '' .
`` It's absurd , Bill '' , Freddy said , from a pale face .
`` I'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot once in a larger sphere .
Sure , Ticonderoga went broke in the low-priced market bucking the Big Three .
`` Nobody will underwrite it , I'm telling you '' , Freddy said .
`` There's plenty of risk money '' , Ham Richert added , `` but not for anything this risky '' .
`` I feel I must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- I don't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family .
`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn .
Spike-haired , burly , red-faced , decked with horn-rimmed glasses and an Ivy League suit , Jack Hamrick awaited William at the officers' club .
`` I suppose I can never expect to call you ' General ' after that Washington episode '' .
It was among these that Hinkle identified a photograph of Barco ! !
) , had listed himself for Mormon Beard roles at the instigation of his fourth murder victim who had said : `` With your beard , dear , you ought to be in movies '' ! !
Mills secured Barco's photograph from the gentleman in charge , rushed to the Hollywood police station to report the theft , and less than five minutes later , detectives with his picture in hand were on the trail of Cal Barco .
Finally , at Ye Olde Gasse Filling Station on Avocado Avenue , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to San Diego .
They headed in that direction and , at San Juan Capistrano By-the-Sea came upon Barco sitting in the quaint old Spanish Mission Drive-in , eating a hot tamale .
The robe , however , was missing , for by that time Barco had disposed of it at a pawnshop in Glendale .
The detectives placed Barco under arrest and , without informing him of the nature of the charge , took him back to Hollywood for questioning .
During the return trip , Barco kept muttering to himself in meaningless phrases , such as : `` They're under sand dunes They're better off , I tell you I saved their souls '' .
Then it was that District Attorney Welch entered the case .
A man of vaulting ambition , with one eye on the mayorship of Los Angeles , nothing ever escaped him which might possibly lead to personal publicity .
But with Welch's relentless pursuit of the subject , Barco finally `` broke '' and started confessing to one murder after another .
By the time Barco reached the count of three , the situation seemed to Welch almost too good to be true .
But to Welch's chagrin , the police captain pooh-poohed Welch's credulity in Barco's confession .
The next day the police captain , in derision , organized what he termed `` Welch's Wild Goose Chase '' .
The searching party consisted of the police captain , Welch , Barco , policemen with shovels , newspaper reporters , and cameramen .
He directed the cortege of autos to the sand dunes near Santa Monica .
Now did Welch truly become the man of the hour , and everything that followed in the procedure of Justice was a new triumph for him .
It was apparent that Welch was in cahoots with Marshall and would use his power as D.A. to drag every possible sensation into the case .
Every new scandal which would provide more `` copy '' for Marshall's pen would thus mean more publicity for Welch .
Once there , the D.A. with devilish cleverness would provide Marshall with headlines : `` Viola's Multiple Romances '' `` Viola Lake an Addict '' `` Downfall of Another Film Idol '' ! !
It wasn't long before I sensed that there was something deeper than overvaulting ambition back of his desire for Viola's destruction .
while projecting from beneath the couch were a pair of feet which , as Fate would have it , belonged to District Attorney Welch .
A little later the district attorney woke up , emerged from under the couch , looked at his watch , and realized he had an engagement that very hour to address a meeting of the Culture Forum on `` The Civic Spirit of the Southland '' , in the Byzantine room of the hotel where his wife , as president of the forum , was to preside .
He never rested until he discovered who the culprit was , and when he did , he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake if ever the chance came his way .
During these first days of the trial I didn't have as much time to commiserate with Viola as I should have liked .
We couldn't be seen together , for the tongue of Scandal was ever ready to link our names , and the tongue of Scandal finds but one thing to say of the association of a man with a girl , no matter how innocent .
I couldn't invite Viola to our house , for Mother snobbishly refused to receive her .
Now the Czarship had not affected my own sense of social values , but Mother had attained a reflected glory through it , which had opened the doors of Los Angeles-Pasadena Society to her .
There , Mother was received by the scions of aristocratic lines which are dominated by the Budweisers ( of beer derivation ) , the Chalmers ( of underwear origin ) , and the Heinzes ( whose forbears founded a nationally famous trade in pickles ) .
In fact , it was not until the King of Spain had visited at Pickfair that Mary and Doug were beckoned to cross the sacred barriers which separate Los Angeles and Pasadena from the hoi-polloi .
Mother even went so far as to trump up for me matrimonial opportunities with Pasadena debs who had been educated abroad , and with those of the more lenient Los Angeles area where a debutante was a girl who had been to high school .
But at long last came a time when I broke away from Mother and her society `` chi-chi '' in order to spend a cosy evening with Viola and her chaperon at her home .
When I arrived at Viola's I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen .
The most that was accomplished was adding Mrs. Beige's tray to the dish pile , and by means of repeated threats , on an ascending scale , seeing that the girls dressed themselves , after a fashion .
Somehow managing to get out a cool , poised , `` Won't you hold on a second , please '' , I covered up the mouthpiece , and with more warmth and less poise , gave a quick lecture on crime and punishment , mostly the latter , including Devil's Island and the remoter reaches of Siberia .
Soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted many times by little things like Jennie's holding her breath and pretending to black out , Miranda's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles .
Under the circumstances , I had difficulty keeping up with the conversation on the phone , but when I hung up I was reasonably certain that Francesca had wanted to remind me of our town meeting the next evening , and how important it was that Hank and I be there .
It seemed that I would be the gainer if I accepted the peace and quiet , instead of carrying out my threats .
What I meant to say was that I started to start in on the dishes by gathering them all together in the kitchen sink .
They looked so formidable , however , so demanding , that I found myself staring at them in dismay and starting to woolgather again , this time about Francesca and her husband .
Francesca and Herbert were among the few people we knew in Catatonia .
We didn't even know them till about a month after we moved -- at that time , they had called on us , after I met Fran at a PTA meeting , and had taken us in hand socially .
Fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived in Manhattan from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming ? ?
She was the daughter and sole heiress of either a cattle baron or an oil millionaire and , having arrived in New York with a big bank roll , became a dabbler in various fields .
She patronized Greenwich Village artists for awhile , then put some money into a Broadway show which was successful ( terrible , but successful ) .
They were married at a lavish ceremony which was duly recorded in Parvenu and all other magazines and newspapers , and then they honeymooned in Bermuda .
They had bought their house in Catatonia after investigating all the regions of suburbia surrounding New York ; ;
`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
Francesca and Herbert considered themselves violently nonconformist and showed the world they were by filling their Colonial house with contemporary furniture and paintings and other art objects ( expensive , but not necessarily valuable , contemporary things ) .
Fran flaunted her independence by rebelling against the Catatonia uniform of Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks by wearing Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks in colors ; ;
You should hear the reverence in Fran's voice when she said `` Baccarat '' or `` Steuben '' or `` Madame Alexander '' .
Besides Francesca , there was Blanche .
I had once been a witness when Blanche had smiled and said with only minimum ruefulness , `` Oh , my souffle has collapsed '' .
After five minutes with Blanche , one might welcome the astringency of Grazie , who was a sort of Gwen Cafritz to Francesca's Perle Mesta .
Francesca and Grazie were habitual committee chairmen and they usually managed to be elected co-chairmen , equal bosses , of whatever PTA or civic project was being launched .
She it was who had looked to see if I was wearing shoes upon learning that I couldn't drive .
The husbands of these women and others I had met in Catatonia were distinguished only in that they were , to me at least , indistinguishable .
They were always leaping to light cigarettes , open car doors , fill plates or glasses , and I mistrusted the whole lot of them to the same degree that I mistrusted bake shops that called themselves `` Sanitary Bake Shops '' .
In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; ;
Reverently and raised their eyes , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which they were , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka .
Then Jennie closed her eyes , stretched forth her arms , and said : `` Take my hand , Louise ; ;
`` It is as though '' , I said on the historic three-hour , coast-to-coast radio broadcast which I bought ( following Father Coughlin and pre-empting the Eddie Cantor , Manhattan Merry-go-round and Major Bowes shows ) `` That Man in the White House , like some despot of yore , insisted on reading my diary , raiding my larder and ransacking my lingerie ! !
'' My impassioned plea for civil rights created a landslide of correspondence and one sponsor even asked me to consider replacing the Eddie Cantor comedy hour on a permanent basis .
The savage barbarian hordes of red Russian Communism descended on the Athens that was mighty Metronome , sacking and despoiling with their Bolshevistic battle cry of `` Soak the rich ' ! !
After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it was announced that the studio `` owed '' the government a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris' helpless relict , was `` stung '' with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to `` wipe out '' all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings .
I was also publicly reprimanded , dragged through the mud by the radical press and made a figure of fun by such leftist publications as The New Republic , The New Yorker , Time and The Christian Science Monitor .
I fought like a tigress but by the time I appealed my case to the Supreme Court ( 1937 ) , Mr. Roosevelt and his `` henchmen '' had done their `` dirty work '' all too well , even going so far as to attempt to `` pack '' the highest tribunal in the land in order to defeat little me .
But the Supreme Court wouldn't even hear my case ! !
As Charles Evans Hughes said , `` Miss Poitrine's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant '' .
Albert Einstein was quoted as saying : `` The workings of the woman's mind amaze me '' .
Heywood Broun wrote : `` Belle Poitrine is the most original thinker since Caligula '' , and even F.D.R. had to concede that `` if the rest of this nation showed the foresight and patriotism of Miss Poitrine , America would rapidly resemble ancient Babylon and Nineveh '' .
Not only were the court costs prohibitive , but I was subjected to crippling fines , in addition to usurious interest on the unpaid `` debts '' which the government claimed that Metronome and I owed -- a severe financial blow .
I point now with pride to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks .
Never a `` quick study '' , he now made no attempt to learn his `` lines '' and many a mile of film was wasted , many a scene -- sometimes involving as many as a thousand fellow thespians -- was taken thirty , forty , fifty times because Miss Poitrine's co-star and `` helpmate '' had never learned his part .
Each time Letch `` went up '' in his `` lines '' , I was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic while he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into `` sulks '' and , on more occasions than I care to count , storming off the `` set '' for the rest of the day .
As for his finances , I was never privileged to know exactly how much money Letch had `` salted away '' .
It was I who paid for our little home , the food , the liquor , the servants -- even Letch's bills at his tailor and the Los Angeles Athletic Club .
More than once I was confronted by professional gamblers , `` bookies '' , loan `` sharks '' , gangsters , `` thugs '' and `` finger men '' -- people of a class I did not even know existed -- to repay my husband's staggering losses , `` or else '' I shuddered to think that someone so dear to me could even associate with such a sinister milieu .
Having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled when I thought of the darling pink and white `` bundles from heaven '' I would have proudly given my husband .
I now felt it wiser to keep Baby-dear in school and -- during the summers -- at a camp run by the Society of Friends all year around .
Her presence only made Letch more distant and irritable and , in the hurry of buying Chateau Belletch , I had neglected to consider a room for Baby-dear , so there was no place to put her , anyhow .
( I sometimes feel that God , in His infinite wisdom , wants us to have these inexplicable little lapses of memory .
Yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley , why , I cannot say .
With faint heart and a brave smile , I endured his long absences from Chateau Belletch , his coldness , his indifference , his slights and his abuse .
The times I can recall when I was publicly humiliated by him -- lovely dinner parties in our Trianon Suite where the collation was postponed and postponed and postponed , only to be served dry and overcooked at a table where the host's chair was vacant ; ;
a `` splash party '' at the new pool , which I had built in the hope of keeping Letch away from public beaches , when Letch and a certain Aquacutie stayed underwater together for the better part of an hour ; ;
a lovely Epiphany party at Errol Flynn's , on which sacred occasion Letch stole away with an unknown `` starlet '' , leaving me `` high and dry '' to get home as best I could .
As Mrs. Letch Feeley , was it any wonder that I , once the social arbiter of Filmdom , was excluded from the smart entertainments given by the Astaires , the Coopers , the Gables , the Colmans , the Rathbones , the Taylors , the Thalbergs and such devout , closely knit families as the Barrymores and the Crosbys ? ?
As Letch's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering .
Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it .
Our last joint venture , Sainted Lady , a deeply religious film based on the life of Mother Cabrini , and timed so that its release date would coincide with the beatification of America's first saint in November , 1938 , was a fiasco from start to finish .
As I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me .
But in order to keep Letch in the public eye and out of trouble , I wrote in a part especially for him -- that of a dashing ruffian who `` sees the light '' and is saved by the inspiring example of Mother Cabrini .
By the time the film was released we were three million dollars over-spent , war was imminent and the public apparently had forgotten all about Mother Cabrini .
Thanks to Letch Feeley and the terrible strain he imposed on me , the notices were few and unfavorable .
Only George Santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film when he wrote : `` Miss Poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the Protestant faith yet unleashed by Hollywood '' .
) The film was called The Diet of Worms , which I felt was just what Letch deserved .
It turned out to be a life of Martin Luther , of all things ! !
At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac .
It was a `` potboiler '' made on a `` shoestring '' and not the sort of film I like , as all I had to do was look blank and scream a great deal .
I really loved that boy , and , in a feverish attempt to preserve our marriage and to try to revive the wonderful , wonderful person Letch had once been , I took my troubles to Momma , hoping that her earthy advice would help me .
`` If I could only think of something at the studio , near me , to absorb his boundless energy '' , I said .
He went down to Mills and Bradley's Hardware Store and bought a full set of carpenter's tools , including a rotary power saw and several other pieces of power machinery that Mr. Mills said were essential for babbiting and doweling , whatever they were .
`` There '' , said Mr. Mills .
There was a fellow named Blatz over Smithtown way .
Mr. Crumb would probably see him at Lodge Meeting the next night .
If he was sober , which was doubtful , he'd have him get in touch with Mr. Crombie .
Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that had come into Mr. Crombie's life since he moved to Highfield , in spite of the fact that he didn't work very fast or very long at a time , and he didn't like to work at all unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him .
So Mr. Crombie sat on a wooden box and talked in order to keep Mr. Blatz's mind from funny things .
At the same time he watched carefully to see how one attached pegboards to stone walls , but Mr. Blatz was usually standing in his line of vision and it all seemed so simple that he didn't like to disclose his ignorance .
While Mr. Blatz was putting up the pegboards and starting the workbench , Mr. Crombie told him of this idea about paneling the whole end of the cellar .
`` By the way '' , said Mr. Blatz , packing his tools into a battered carrier , `` them power tools needs extra voltage .
Instead of being depressed by this news , Mr. Crombie was actually relieved .
He followed Mr. Blatz up the cellar stairs .
As usual , Mrs. Crombie was standing in the midst of a confusion of cooking utensils .
`` Oh , that's wonderful '' , cried Mrs. Crombie .
`` But those are the things I built the workshop for '' , protested Mr. Crombie .
`` Those are the things I can do , now that I'm set up '' .
Ben Franklin said , `` Clearly spoken , Mr. Fogg .
You explain English by Greek '' .
Richard Brinsley Sheridan said , `` I think the interpreter is the hardest to be understood of the two '' .
And a witty American journalist remarked over a century ago what is even more true today , `` Many a writer seems to think he is never profound except when he can't understand his own meaning '' .
`` Did you or did you not say what I said you said , because Jane said you never said what I said '' ? ?
Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they didn't send us one , so they probably won't send us one this year because they'll think we won't send them one because they didn't last year , don't you think , or shall we '' ? ?
`` I wrote Bill in my last letter to forget that I had told him that I didn't mean to reconsider my decision not to change my mind -- and he seems to have misunderstood me '' .
They recall Byron's classic comment : `` I wish he would explain his explanation '' .
Similarly , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion , Lincoln refused to make any further statement .
A verse familiar to all grammarians is the quatrain : `` I saw a man once beat his wife When on a drunken spree .
Readers of the Reader's Digest are familiar with such items which often appear in its lists of verbal slips , like the ad in a California paper that advertised `` House for rent .
Son and Daughter of Local Couple Married '' .
`` While Henry Morgan was escorting Miss Vera Green from the church social last Saturday night , a savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Morgan on the public square '' .
Such items recall the California journalist who reported an accident involving a movie star : `` The area in which Miss N -- was injured is spectacularly scenic '' .
The double meaning in the anatomical made it a familiar vaudeville device , as in the gags of Weber and Fields .
The puzzled saleslady inquired , `` How large is your house , Madam '' ? ?
The daughter replied , `` Oh , I had dinner with -- well , you don't know him but he's awfully nice -- and we went to a couple of places -- I don't suppose you've heard of them -- and we finished up at a cute little night club -- I forget the name of it .
This clergyman should have referred to Shakespeare's dictum : `` So-so is a good , very good , very excellent maxim .
This is not unlike the order received by the sergeant of an army motor pool : `` Four trucks to Fort Mason gym , 7:30 tonight , for hauling girls to dance .
One said , `` When I get a cold I buy a bottle of whiskey for it , and within a few hours it's gone '' .
I called the other afternoon on my old friend , Graves Moreland , the Anglo-American literary critic -- his mother was born in Ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the Upson Downs , raising hell and peacocks , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor .
After Gagarin became the Greatest Man in the World , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism , Moreland wrote me a letter in which he said : `` I am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly .
We now have not only what has been called over here the comedy of menace but we also have horror jokes , magazines known as Horror Comics , and sick comedians .
There are even publications called Sick and Mad .
The Zeitgeist is not crazy as a loon or mad as a March hare ; ;
`` I woke up this morning '' , Moreland said , `` paraphrasing Lewis Carroll .
`` Just barely '' , he said , and repeated his paraphrase : `` The time has come '' , the walrus said , `` To speak of manic things , Of shots and shouts , and sealing dooms Of commoners and kings '' .
Moreland fixed us each another drink , and said , `` For God's sake , tell me something truly amusing '' .
`` Oh yes , the other day I reread some of Emerson's English Traits , and there was an anecdote about a group of English and Americans visiting Germany , more than a hundred years ago .
In the railway station at Berlin , a uniformed attendant was chanting , ' Foreigners this way ! !
One woman -- she could have been either English or American -- went up to him and said , ' But you are the foreigners ' '' .
I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going back to Ralph Waldo Emerson for humor is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
`` Speaking of nonism : the other day , in a story about a sit-down demonstration , the Paris Herald Tribune wrote , ' The non-violence became noisier .
And then Eichmann was quoted as saying , in non-English , that Hitler's plan to exterminate the Jews was nonsense '' .
In our present era of Science and Angst , the heart has been downgraded , to use one of our popular retrogressive verbs '' .
`` Last year your Tennessee Williams told our Dilys Powell , in a television program , that it is the task of the playwright to throw light into the dark corners of the human heart .
The sentimental pure heart of Galahad is gone with the knightly years , but I still believe in the heart of the George Meredith character that was not made of the stuff that breaks '' .
`` We no longer have Tom Moore's and Longfellow's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , I said .
`` Moore and Longfellow didn't have the fate that faces us '' , Moreland said .
`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , I believe '' , my host said .
`` Do you think we need a new Henry James to re-explore the Anglo-American scene '' ? ?
`` Or perhaps a new Noel Coward '' ? ?
`` But you must have heard it said that the drawing-room disappeared forever with the somnolent years of James and the antic heyday of Coward .
Borrowing a line from Don Marquis' Mehitabel .
Recently , by the way , I received a questionnaire in which I was asked whether or not I was non-institutionalized '' .
`` Do you remember the woman in the French Alps who was all alone with her sheep one day when the sun darkened ominously ? ?
`` If you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' , I said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros .
In his famous meeting with Nixon a couple of years ago he seemed to believe that he was as funny as Ed Wynn .
But , like Caesar , he has only one joke , so far as I can find out .
`` You and I have fallen out of literature into politics '' , Moreland observed .
In our age of Science and Angst it seems to me more brave to stay on Earth and explore inner man than to fly far from the sphere of our sorrow and explore outer space '' .
`` The other day Arnold Toynbee spoke against the inveterate tendency of our species to believe in the uniqueness of its religions , its ideologies , and its virtually everything else .
Forty years ago an English writer , W. L. George , dealt with this subject in Eddies of the Day , and said , as an example , that ' Saint George for Merry England ' would not start a spirit half so quickly as ' Strike frog-eating Frenchmen dead ' '' ! !
`` There was also Gott strafe Angleterre '' , Moreland reminded me , `` and Carthago delenda est , or if you will , Deus strafe Carthage .
One day , the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside's horse .
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , `` Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all .
`` Just you wait '' , advised Arlene , echoing the dialogue in a recent British movie .
`` Now , we're going to be like what General Burnside and his horse make us think of '' .
`` I'm General Burnside's horse , upside down '' , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position .
She made General Burnside's horse's belly do so funny when it was upside down .
`` This time '' , Arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , `` you're going to tell me what I am and what I'm doing .
It all has something to do with General Burnside and his horse '' .
It was General Burnside's horse running in a circle .
But not General Burnside .
Then , they had to get up and be General Burnside .
Then , they said General Burnside was going to jump over his horse's head ; ;
She also taught them to sing `` I wish I could shimmy like my sister Kate '' .
`` I'm sorry , Mrs. Minks '' , Arlene said in a tone so low you could hardly hear it .
`` Tell Mr. Gorboduc what you're doing these days '' , my mother advised the children , ceremonially .
This happy bulletin convulsed Mr. Gorboduc .
She could see that Mr. Gorboduc was intrigued ; ;
My uncle looked at Mr. Gorboduc .
He read Henry James and used to pretend profundity through eye-beamings at people .
Pueri aquam de silvas ad agricolas portant , a delightful vignette set in the unforgettable epoch of pre-Punic War Rome .
Suddenly , a messenger arrives and , just before collapsing dead at his feet , informs him that the Saracens have invaded Silesia , the home province of his affianced .
The Albany Civic Opera's presentation of Spumoni's immortal Il Sevigli del Spegititgninino , with guest contralto Hattie Sforzt .
An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given last week in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' ! !
After a `` busy '' overture , the curtain rises on a farm scene -- the Ranavan Valley in northern Maine .
A dead armadillo , the sole occupant of the stage , symbolizes the crisis and destruction of the Old Order .
Old Order , acted and atonally sung by Grunnfeu Arapacis , the lovely Serbantian import , then entered and delivered the well-known invocation to the god Phineoppus , whereupon the stage is quite unexpectedly visited by a company of wandering Gorshek priests , symbolizing Love , Lust , Prudence and General Motors , respectively .
According to the myth , Old Order then vanishes at stage left and reappears at extreme stage right , but Director Shuz skillfully sidesteps the rather gooshey problem of stage effects by simply having Miss Arapacis walk across the stage .
We caught the early train to New York .
The Dharma Dictionary , a list of highly unusual terms used in connection with Eurasian proto-senility cults .
Likewise , and equally fascinating , is the news that such unlikely synonyms as `` pratakku '' , `` sweathruna '' , and the tongue-twister `` nnuolapertar-it-vuh-karti-birifw- '' all originated in the same village in Bathar-on-Walli Province and are all used to express sentiments concerning British `` imperialism '' .
The terms are fairly safe to use on this side of the ocean , but before you start spouting them to your date , it might be best to find out if he was a member of Major Pockmanster's Delhi Regiment , since resentment toward the natives was reportedly very high in that outfit .
The breeze and chancellor Neitzbohr , a movie melodrama that concerns the attempts of a West German politician to woo a plaster cast of the Apollo Belvedere .
As you have doubtless guessed already , the plot is plastered with Freudian , Jungian , and Meinckian theory .
For example , when the film is only four minutes old , Neitzbohr refers to a small , Victorian piano stool as `` Wilhelmina '' , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was Doris ( the English equivalent , when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations , of Wilhelmina ) .
For the remainder of the movie , Chancellor Neitzbohr proceeds to lash the piano stool with a slat from a Venetian blind that used to hang in the pre-war Reichstag .
In this manner , he seeks to expunge from his own soul the guilt pangs caused by his personal assaults against the English at Dunkirk .
As we find out at the end , it is not the stool ( symbolizing Doris , therefore the English ) that he is punishing but the piece of Venetian blind .
The music of Bini SalFininistas , capital LP Ab63711-r , one of the rare recordings of this titanic , yet unsung , composer .
Those persons who were lucky enough to see and hear the performance of his work at the Brest-Silevniov Festival in August , 1916 , will certainly welcome his return to public notice ; ;
But now , under the guidance of the contemporary composer Marc Schlek , Jr. , a major revival is under way .
As he leads the Neurenschatz Skolkau Orchestra , Schlek gives a tremendously inspired performance of both the Baslot and Rattzhenfuut concertos , including the controversial Tschilwyk cadenza , which was included at the conductor's insistence .
A major portion of the credit should also go to flautist Haumd for his rendering of the almost impossible `` Indianapolis '' movement in the Baslot .
For example , to move ( as the score requires ) from the lowest F-major register up to a barely audible N minor in four seconds , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
As Broadway itself becomes increasingly weighted down by trite , heavy-handed , commercially successful musicals and inspirational problem dramas , the American theatre is going through an inexorable renaissance in that nebulous area known as `` off-Broadway '' .
The latest and , significantly , greatest fruit of this theatrical vine is The , an adaptation of Basho's classic frog-haiku by Roger Entwhistle , a former University of Maryland chemistry instructor .
Leaving the theatre after the performance , I had a flash of intuition that life , after all ( as Rilke said ) , is just a search for the nonexistent cup of hot coffee , and that this unpretentious , moving , clever , bitter slice of life was the greatest thing to happen to the American theatre since Brooks Atkinson retired .
Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old Paris again , this time with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel .
A biting , pithy parable of the all-pervading hollowness of modern life , the piece has been set by Mlle Lagoon to a sumptuous score ( a single motif played over and over by four thousand French horns ) by existentialist hot-shot Jean-Paul Sartre .
Petite , lovely Yvette Chadroe plays the nymphomaniac engagingly .
Ever since Bambi , and , more recently , Born Free , there have been a lot of books about animals , but few compare with Max Fink's wry , understated , charming , and immensely readable My Friend , the Quizzical Salamander .
Done in the modern style of a `` confession '' , Fink tells in exquisite detail how he came to know , and , more important , love his mother's pet salamander , Alicia .
It is not an entirely happy book , as Mrs. Fink soon becomes jealous of Alicia and , in retaliation , refuses to continue to scrape the algae off her glass .
Max , in a fit of despair , takes Alicia and runs off for two marvelous weeks in Burbank ( Fink calls it `` the most wonderful and lovely fourteen days in my whole life '' ) , at the end of which Alicia tragically contracts Parkinson's disease and dies .
Opera in the Grand Tradition , along with mah-jongg , seems to be staging a well-deserved comeback .
In this country , the two guiding lights are , without doubt , Felix Fing and Anna Pulova .
Fing , a lean , chiseled , impeccable gentleman of the old school who was once mistaken on the street for Sir Cedric Hardwicke , is responsible for the rediscovery of Verdi's earliest , most raucous opera , Nabisco , a sumptuous bout-de-souffle with a haunting leitmotiv that struck me as being highly reminiscent of the Mudugno version of `` Volare '' .
Miss Pulova has a voice that Maria Callas once described as `` like chipping teeth with a screw driver '' , and her round , opalescent face becomes fascinatingly reflective of the emotions demanded by the role of Rosalie .
The Champs Elysees is literally littered this summer with the prostrate bodies of France's beat-up beatnik jeunes filles .
Cause of all this commotion : squat , pug-nosed , balding , hopelessly ugly Jean-Pierre Bravado , a Bogartian figure , who plays a sadistic , amoral , philosophic Tasti-Freeze salesman in old New-Waver Fredrico de Mille Rossilini's endlessly provocative film , A Sour Sponge .
Bravado has been alternately described as `` a symbol of the new grandeur of France and myself '' ( De Gaulle ) and `` a decadent , disgusting slob '' ! !
Soaring to stardom along with him , Margo Felicity Brighetti , a luscious and curvaceously beguiling Italian starlet , turns in a creditable performance as an airplane mechanic .
The battle of the drib-drool continues , but most of New York's knowing sophisticates of Abstract Expressionism are stamping their feet impatiently in expectation of V ( for Vindication ) Day , September first , when Augustus Quasimodo's first one-man show opens at the Guggenheim .
We have heard that after seeing Mr. Quasimodo's work it will be virtually impossible to deny the artistic validity and importance of the whole abstract movement .
And it is thought by many who think about such things that Quasimodo is the logical culmination of a school that started with Monet , progressed through Kandinsky and the cubist Picasso , and blossomed just recently in Pollock and De Kooning .
`` I paint the nothing '' , he said once to Franz Kline and myself , `` the nothing that is behind the something , the inexpressible , unpaintable ' tick ' in the unconscious , the ' spirit ' of the moment resting forever , suspended like a huge balloon , in non-time '' .
It is his relentlessness and unwaivering adherence to this revolutionary artistic philosophy that has enabled him to paint such pictures as `` The Invasion of Cuba '' .
Dear Sirs : Let me begin by clearing up any possible misconception in your minds , wherever you are .
Quite candidly , fellows , I wouldn't be in your shoes for all the rice in China .
Sometime on Saturday evening , August 22nd , while my family and I were dining at the Hostaria dell' Orso , in Rome , you jimmied a window of our home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises .
Hastening to the attic , the temperature of which was easily hotter than the Gold Coast , you proceeded to mask the windows with a fancy wool coverlet , some khaki pants , and the like , and to ransack the innumerable boxes and barrels stored there .
From the curio cabinet on its south wall and the bureaus beneath , you abstracted seventeen ivory , metal , wood , and stone sculptures of Oriental and African origin , two snuffboxes , and a jade-handled magnifying glass .
Rummaging through a stack of drawers nearby , you unearthed an antique French chess set in ivory and sandalwood , which , along with two box Kodaks , you added to your haul .
The foregoing , aided by several clues I'll withhold to keep you on your toes , will pursue you with a tenacity worthy of Inspector Javert , but before they close in , gird yourselves , I repeat , for a vengeance infinitely more pitiless .
All this , though , is simply a prelude , a curtain-raiser , for what ensues , and I doubt whether any Occidental could accurately forecast it .
First of all , the six figures of the Buddha you heisted -- four Siamese heads , a black obsidian statuette in the earth-touching position , and a large brass figure of the Dying Buddha on a teakwood base .
Now , you probably share the widespread Western belief that the Lord Buddha is the most compassionate of the gods , much more so than Jehovah and Allah and the rest .
Well , ordinarily he is , except ( as the Wheel of the Law specifies ) toward impious folk who steal , disturb , or maltreat the Presence .
Eight or ten years ago , a couple of French hoods stole a priceless Khmer head from the Musee Guimet , in Paris , and a week later crawled into the Salpetriere with unmistakable symptoms of leprosy .
Any reputable French interne can supply you with a dozen similar instances , and I'll presently recount a case out of my own personal experience , but , for the moment , let's resume our catalogue .
Whether the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , I am not competent to say .
Likewise the ivory Chinese female figure known as a `` doctor lady '' ( provenance Honan ) ; ;
The three Indian brass deities , though -- Ganessa , Siva , and Krishna -- are an altogether different cup of tea .
They hail from Travancore , a state in the subcontinent where Kali , the goddess of death , is worshiped .
But it is the wooden sculpture from Bali , the one representing two men with their heads bent backward and their bodies interlaced by a fish , that I particularly call to your attention .
Inscribed around its base is a charm in Balinese , a dialect I take it you don't comprehend .
Neither do I , but the Tjokorda Agoeng was good enough to translate , and I'll do as much for you .
A couple of years back , I occupied a Village apartment whose outer staircase contained the type of niche called a `` coffin turn '' .
In it was a stone Tibetan Buddha I had picked up in Bombay , and occasionally , to make merit , my wife and I garlanded it with flowers or laid a few pennies in its lap .
The more I probed into this young man's activities and character , the less savory I found him .
Evenings , he was frequently to be seen at restaurants like Enrico & Paglieri's or Peter's Backyard drunkenly donning ladies' hats and singing `` O Sole Mio '' .
Some sort of nemesis was haunting his footsteps , he told us in a quavering voice -- either an ape specter or Abe Spector , a process-server , we couldn't determine which .
His eyes had the same dreadful rigid stare as Dr. Grimesby Roylott's when he was found before his open safe wearing the speckled band .
Not long ago , I rode down with him in an elevator in Radio City ; ;
Additionally , since you're going to be hors de combat pretty soon with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you've aroused , you mustn't expect to be lionized socially .
S. J. Perelman
She was a living doll and no mistake -- the blue-black bang , the wide cheekbones , olive-flushed , that betrayed the Cherokee strain in her Midwestern lineage , and the mouth whose only fault , in the novelist's carping phrase , was that the lower lip was a trifle too voluptuous .
